And so she did; and the next day, when she picked them up and petted
them again, Mrs. Hen did not say a word, but seemed quite pleased and
proud.

AUNT SUSAN.

HOW THE OLD SPARROW HELPED THE YOUNG ONE.

AN unfledged sparrow, not strong enough to fly far, had fallen into the
area of a city basement.

The poor little bird was wasting its strength in vain attempts to get
out of its prison, while its mother looked down in alarm, and tried her
best to cheer and aid her child.

At last the old bird flew away. "Can it be," I thought, "that she is
going to desert her little one?" No indeed! She had only hit upon a new
plan.

Back she soon came with a stout straw in her beak. Perching on an iron
bar which crossed the area about a foot below the level of the street,
she passed one end of the straw to the little captive below.

The nestling took the offered straw in its beak and clung to it, while
the mother, holding fast to the other end, flew up to the street. Thus,
with some aid from its own wings, the little bird was able to gain a
foothold on the iron bar.

From this point, one more pull by the old bird helped it to reach the
pavement, where it fluttered away with its delighted mother.

UNCLE CHARLES.

HOME, SWEET HOME.

"HOW real jolly it seems to be back in our own parlor again!" said
Willie Morton, making a flying leap over an ottoman as he spoke.

With his elder brother he had been away at school for a year, while his
mother and sisters were travelling abroad. This was the first evening
that they were all together again.

"Come, sister Annie," Willie continued, "sing 'Home, sweet home!'
Charlie can play it on the flute."

So Annie took her place at the piano; their mother seated herself to
listen, with little Amy on her lap; and Charlie produced his flute. They
were soon singing the old familiar song with all their hearts, Willie's
voice loudest of all.

When this song was ended, he proposed singing "The star-spangled
banner," "because," as he said to his sister, "you ought to rejoice to
be under the old flag again."

The singing over, the excited boy roused up his little sister, who had
almost fallen asleep in her mother's lap, and whirled her round in what
he called a waltz, till his mother said it was quite time to dance off
to bed.

The last sound heard as he ran up stairs was, "Hurrah! there's no place
like home!"

IDA FAY.

IN SCHOOL AND OUT.

SCHOOL-TIME is coming again;
    "So much the better!" says Jane,
    And off, with her satchel and slate,
    She starts, for she scorns to be late.

But ragged and barefooted Meg
    Does nothing but wander and beg.
    Oh, why does she not go to school?
    Poor child! She's by no means a fool.

X. Y. Z.

THE LITTLE SAILOR.