The band stood on a table,--a fiddle and a harp;
    The former was a trifle flat, the latter rather sharp:
    But, oh the jolly dancing, the capers queer and gay!
    Why, pigeon-wings were nothing, and double-shuffles, play.

The belles reclined in corners, and chatted to the beaux,
    Who looked so neat and graceful, each turning out his toes;
    And all the daddy-crickets were happy as could be,
    Their little baby-crickets they dandled on their knee.

A Daddy Longlegs handed a lady out to dance,--
    'Twas said he was a baron,--quite modest was her glance;
    He kissed her hand politely, his style they all admired;
    He bowed to her sedately; she courtesied and retired.

A dozen tiny crickets then tried a minuet,
    And many other dances whose names you would forget.
    The fiddler scraped up louder, a mouse peeped out to see;
    But laughed his head off nearly to mark such jollity!

The supper, oh, that supper! From brimming cups of dew
    They sipped, and luscious goodies were spread out,--not a few.
    They handed round in slices a dainty Christmas cake
    That very much resembled a tiny snowy flake.

They didn't stop till morning; they heard a rooster crow,
    And then the merry fiddler put away his bow;
    And twenty jolly couples with weary legs retire
    As Bridget pops in lively to make the kitchen-fire.

GEORGE COOPER.

SO TIRED!

NELLY was a bright, happy little girl. Her home was in the country; and
in summer, as soon as the birds began to sing, her eyes were wide open,
and she was ready to jump and play and sing too.

Then, as soon as she was nicely bathed and dressed, and her curly hair
tied with a pretty ribbon, away she would go out of doors, to gather
flowers, or feed the chickens, or play with the kitten.

After breakfast she would go into the field where the hay was making,
and help with her own little rake to toss and spread it. But at eleven
o'clock her mother would call her in, put on her cool night-dress, and
lay her in her crib for a nap, and by that time the little girl was
usually tired enough to be glad to go to sleep.

But one day she was having such a nice time with some little cousins
who had come to play with her, that, when her mother called her in for
her nap, she said, "Oh, please, mamma, don't make me go to sleep to-day;
I'm not a bit sleepy. See how wide open my eyes are!"

Her mother laughed and said, "Well, darling, we'll try it this once, but
I'm afraid you will be tired before night."

"Oh, no! mamma, I shall not be tired, I know, because I am having such a
good time."