So she played on merrily until her dinner at one o'clock, and, as soon
as that was over, she was off again for another frolic. By and by she
came in, looking very weary, and said, "I don't want to play out any
more, mamma: I think it's time for my supper."

Now it was not yet five o'clock, and her usual supper hour was half-past
six. But her mamma at once put some nice bread and butter on the table
and her mug of milk, and left her to eat it, while she went to speak to
a friend.

When she came back soon after, Miss Nelly had pushed back her plate,
upset her mug, laid down her apron, dropped her head on her chubby arm,
and gone fast asleep.

The next day when mamma called her for her nap, she ran quickly, saying,
"All ready, mamma, because I was so tired yesterday."

JANE OLIVER.

LESSONS.

AUNT LIZZIE.

OUT in the sunny garden-plot,
      Among the blossoms gay,
    The lilies and the four-o'clocks,
      What have you learned to-day?

ALFRED.

Loud humming in a hollyhock,
      I heard a little bee:
    He filled his yellow thighs with wax,
      And this he taught to me:
    "Short time have I to honey win;
    Short time have you to study in;
    Soon life and summer glide away:
    We must keep busy every day."

BESSY.

And on a purple candytuft
      I saw a butterfly:
    It waved its red-and-yellow wings,
      And said, "A worm was I:
    Be cheerful whatso'er befall,
    And hope to soar when forced to crawl."

CHARLEY.

Among some morning-glories set
    There grew the fragrant mignonette:
    It said to me, "A winning grace
    A kind heart lends the plainest face:
    Who would my simple blossom choose
    Should I my pleasant perfume lose?"

DORA.

Upon a green sweetbrier bough,
      A pleasant, shady place,
    All hung with dew, like gems, I found
      A web of silver lace;
    And on it, with its many eyes,
    I saw a spider watching flies,
    Who taught me this: "One must beware;
    The fairest thing may prove a snare."

AUNT.

Four useful lessons you have learned
      This happy summer hour,
    Taught by a bee, a butterfly,
      A spider, and a flower.

MARIAN DOUGLAS.

THE DOLL THAT FANNY FOUND.

FANNY went to spend her vacation with her grandma, who lived in the
country. For a whole week every day was pleasant, and she had a lovely
time.

She picked berries for grandma to make pies. She drove the cows home
from the pasture every night. She rode into the fields in the hay-cart,
and came home on the big loads of hay. She fed the chickens, and played
with the kittens. But at last there came a rainy day.

Fanny heard the rain pattering on the window the first thing when she
awoke in the morning. As soon as grandma opened the door to call her,
she cried out: "O grandma! see how it rains! What shall I do to-day?"