"You can stay in the house with me," said grandma; "I have not seen much
of my little girl yet."

"Well, you must tell me what to do," said Fanny.

"You can go up in the garret and play. There is where your mother and
aunt Sarah used to spend a good many rainy days," said grandma.

So, after breakfast, Fanny went into the attic. The attic was a very
large room, containing old spinning-wheels, chests, boxes, and many
other things--such as are always found in attics.

"Now for a grand rummage!" said Fanny, and she began to look over the
boxes and chests to see what she could find. In some of the boxes there
were books and papers. In one of them there were old dresses and
bonnets. Fanny pulled the things out of this box, one after another, and
as she reached the bottom, she cried, "Oh, what have I found! what have
I found!"

It was a large old-fashioned rag-baby almost as large as a real baby a
few weeks old. Its face and clothes were soiled and faded; its cap was
torn and yellow; and it had but one shoe: but the little girl was
delighted with it.

She had a number of handsome dolls at home; but she had never seen one
like this before.

"How nice and soft it is to hold!" said Fanny. "I must go right down and
show it to grandma, and ask her all about it."

She found grandma in the milk-room, churning cream. "See what I have
found, grandma," said Fanny, holding the baby up before her. "Now do
tell me whose baby this is."

"Oh," said grandma, laughing, "I made that doll for your mother when she
was a little girl. I remember how pleased she was with it. She named it
Sally."

"I think old Sally is splendid, and I am going to play with her all the
time I am here," said Fanny.

All the rest of her vacation, Sally was Fanny's pet and plaything. She
made new clothes for her, took her out to walk and ride every day, and
put her to bed every night.

In the picture you may see Fanny and Sally out in the fields together.

M. M. HATHAWAY.

ALL TRUE.

MRS. F., a lady living not far from Boston, has a bantam hen, who, every
spring morning, walks into the house, and lays an egg in a
rocking-chair.

After laying the egg, Mrs. Bantam jumps up on the window-seat and says
"Cut, cut, cut, cut-ah-cut!"

A turkey belonging to this same lady, who is very fond of pets, once
came off her nest with one poor little fledgeling; a duck appeared,
about the same time, with only one duckling; and, strangely enough, a
hen was roaming about with one solitary chicken.