Mrs. F. thought that the three young ones might as well make one family:
so she put the young turkey and the duckling with the hen, and Mistress
Biddy took care of them with her own chicken, just as though she were
the true mother of them all.

Mrs. F. used to take all three up in her lap and feed them. When put
down, the turkey and the duckling would stretch their long necks up,
looking wistfully at her, as if coaxing her to take them up again. But
the chicken did not seem to care about being petted.

AUNT SUE.

ON THE WAY TO SLUMBER-LAND.

DEAR little Lily, in night-gown white,
    Her precious old dolly holding tight,
    Looks back, as she goes, to say
        "Papa, good-night!"

S. O. C.

THE STRANGE MAN.

THIS little girl thinks she sees a strange man in the cornfield. He is
very tall, and has long black hair. She clasps her hands in wonder. She
goes up to the man; but he does not even bow to her.

Why, it is only a scarecrow! If the little girl had been a crow, I think
she could not have been more scared. But she will have a good laugh now
to make up for it. A pole with a hat on it can't deceive such bright
eyes as hers.

S. O. J.

A KNOWING DOG.

ETHEL is never tired of talking about her dog Flash. One of his
accomplishments, she tells me, is his graceful way of setting the table.

When it is time for Flash to have his dinner, his master says, "Flash,
bring the table-cloth!"

Off he runs to the newspaper-rack, gets a paper, and lays it at his
master's feet. "Spread it out!" is the next command.

Quickly he opens the paper to its full extent, and places it on the
floor carefully. He waits patiently for the bones that are to reward his
obedience. When they have been put on the clean "table-cloth," he begins
his nice feast. Dinner over, Flash picks up the paper cloth, and carries
it out of the room for the cook to burn.

Ethel says that Flash can tell time; for at just such a minute every
day, the dog comes to his master, sits up straight, with his front paws
drooping gracefully, and asks, in his dumb way, for something to eat.
And when the time comes for his master to go down town to business,
Flash is sure to give him a hint; for Flash is very punctual, you see,
and does not approve of delay.

One day Flash brought an intimate friend, a red setter, and introduced
him to his master. Flash stood wagging his tail, while the caller was
politely caressed. Then the two dogs trotted off together, and Flash's
playmate had a new name to put on his visiting list.

GEORGE T. PACKARD.

MOTHER'S CALLER.