"RAT-TAT-TAT upon the door; pray who can it be?
    Such a funny lady never did I see.
    Such a hat upon her head,--far too large a size,--
    Such a mass of tangled curls hanging in her eyes!

"Do come in, my lady small, here's the rocking-chair:
    Taking out your family for the morning air?
    This child fell and hurt her head? that was very sad:
    Other dolly broke her arm? wasn't it too bad?

"What, not going! Stay awhile, it is early yet:
    Come and see me soon again; now, do not forget.
    Ah! I've seen that face before, dimples, curls, and all,--
    'Tis my own clear little girl come to make a call."

RUTH REVERE.

THE STARLING.

THIS handsome and sprightly bird is very common in Europe. It is about
eight inches long, of a rich black color spotted with buff. When caged
young, and tamed, it may be taught to say a few words and to whistle
short tunes.

A starling owned by a lady in Germany, was in the habit of perching on
the cow's head. There he would sit between her horns, busily cleaning
his feathers. The cow did not notice him until he began to walk down her
broad forehead. Then she felt his sharp claws and shook her head to
drive him away; but he only flew back to his former place, and sat
there, singing joyously.

L. E. H., from the German.

DAISIES AND CLOVER.

PATTY was taking a stroll in the pasture, plucking daisies as she went
along. Suddenly she stopped, and seemed to be intent upon something in
the grass.

"Do you see a snake, Patty?" said her cousin Paul, coming softly up
behind her.

"Oh, no!" answered Patty, "I was only trying to find something."

"Trying to find something!" said Paul. "What in the world can it be?"

"Guess, if you can."

"Well," said Paul, "I guess it's a gold dollar."

"No such thing."

"Then it must be a pearl."

"No."

"An ear-ring?"

"No, I don't wear ear-rings."

"A hairpin?"

"No indeed! you saucy boy."

"Dear me! Then I shall have to give it up. Can't rack my brains any
more. The strain is too great."

"What a bright boy you are at guessing! You shall have this bunch of
daisies as a reward of merit. Are they not pretty? Don't despise them
because they are weeds. Now I will tell you what I am looking for. I
want very much to find a----"

"Stop a minute," said Paul, "I have it." And he stooped down, and
plucked a four-leaved clover.

"That's the very thing," said Patty.

"Good luck to you!" said Paul, handing her the clover with a graceful
bow.

ANNA LIVINGSTON.

CURLY-HEAD AND INQUISITIVE NED.

"WHAT have you in your basket,
          Curly-head?"
    "Though 'tis not polite to ask it,
          I've some bread."

"Where do you go with your basket?
            Who's in need?"
    "Though 'tis not polite to ask it,
            Swans I feed."