“Really, girls, you are both to be blamed,” said Meg, beginning to
lecture in her elder-sisterly fashion. “You are old enough to leave off
boyish tricks, and to behave better, Josephine. It didn’t matter so
much when you were a little girl, but now you are so tall, and turn up
your hair, you should remember that you are a young lady.”

“I’m not! And if turning up my hair makes me one, I’ll wear it in two
tails till I’m twenty,” cried Jo, pulling off her net, and shaking down
a chestnut mane. “I hate to think I’ve got to grow up, and be Miss
March, and wear long gowns, and look as prim as a China Aster! It’s bad
enough to be a girl, anyway, when I like boy’s games and work and
manners! I can’t get over my disappointment in not being a boy. And
it’s worse than ever now, for I’m dying to go and fight with Papa. And
I can only stay home and knit, like a poky old woman!”

And Jo shook the blue army sock till the needles rattled like
castanets, and her ball bounded across the room.

“Poor Jo! It’s too bad, but it can’t be helped. So you must try to be
contented with making your name boyish, and playing brother to us
girls,” said Beth, stroking the rough head with a hand that all the
dish washing and dusting in the world could not make ungentle in its
touch.

“As for you, Amy,” continued Meg, “you are altogether too particular
and prim. Your airs are funny now, but you’ll grow up an affected
little goose, if you don’t take care. I like your nice manners and
refined ways of speaking, when you don’t try to be elegant. But your
absurd words are as bad as Jo’s slang.”

“If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?” asked Beth,
ready to share the lecture.

“You’re a dear, and nothing else,” answered Meg warmly, and no one
contradicted her, for the ‘Mouse’ was the pet of the family.

As young readers like to know ‘how people look’, we will take this
moment to give them a little sketch of the four sisters, who sat
knitting away in the twilight, while the December snow fell quietly
without, and the fire crackled cheerfully within. It was a comfortable
room, though the carpet was faded and the furniture very plain, for a
good picture or two hung on the walls, books filled the recesses,
chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in the windows, and a
pleasant atmosphere of home peace pervaded it.