It was on the tip of Jo’s tongue to ask, but she checked herself in
time and, with unusual tact, tried to find out in a round-about way.

“I suppose you are going to college soon? I see you pegging away at
your books, no, I mean studying hard.” And Jo blushed at the dreadful
‘pegging’ which had escaped her.

Laurie smiled but didn’t seem shocked, and answered with a shrug. “Not
for a year or two. I won’t go before seventeen, anyway.”

“Aren’t you but fifteen?” asked Jo, looking at the tall lad, whom she
had imagined seventeen already.

“Sixteen, next month.”

“How I wish I was going to college! You don’t look as if you liked it.”

“I hate it! Nothing but grinding or skylarking. And I don’t like the
way fellows do either, in this country.”

“What do you like?”

“To live in Italy, and to enjoy myself in my own way.”

Jo wanted very much to ask what his own way was, but his black brows
you go and try it?”

“If you will come too,” he answered, with a gallant little bow.

“I can’t, for I told Meg I wouldn’t, because...” There Jo stopped, and
looked undecided whether to tell or to laugh.

“Because, what?”

“You won’t tell?”

“Never!”

“Well, I have a bad trick of standing before the fire, and so I burn my
frocks, and I scorched this one, and though it’s nicely mended, it
shows, and Meg told me to keep still so no one would see it. You may
laugh, if you want to. It is funny, I know.”

But Laurie didn’t laugh. He only looked down a minute, and the
expression of his face puzzled Jo when he said very gently, “Never mind
that. I’ll tell you how we can manage. There’s a long hall out there,
and we can dance grandly, and no one will see us. Please come.”

Jo thanked him and gladly went, wishing she had two neat gloves when
she saw the nice, pearl-colored ones her partner wore. The hall was
empty, and they had a grand polka, for Laurie danced well, and taught
her the German step, which delighted Jo, being full of swing and
spring. When the music stopped, they sat down on the stairs to get
their breath, and Laurie was in the midst of an account of a students’
festival at Heidelberg when Meg appeared in search of her sister. She
beckoned, and Jo reluctantly followed her into a side room, where she
found her on a sofa, holding her foot, and looking pale.

“I’ve sprained my ankle. That stupid high heel turned and gave me a sad
wrench. It aches so, I can hardly stand, and I don’t know how I’m ever
going to get home,” she said, rocking to and fro in pain.

“I knew you’d hurt your feet with those silly shoes. I’m sorry. But I
don’t see what you can do, except get a carriage, or stay here all
night,” answered Jo, softly rubbing the poor ankle as she spoke.