“I can’t have a carriage without its costing ever so much. I dare say I
can’t get one at all, for most people come in their own, and it’s a
long way to the stable, and no one to send.”

“I’ll go.”

“No, indeed! It’s past nine, and dark as Egypt. I can’t stop here, for
the house is full. Sallie has some girls staying with her. I’ll rest
till Hannah comes, and then do the best I can.”

“I’ll ask Laurie. He will go,” said Jo, looking relieved as the idea
occurred to her.

“Mercy, no! Don’t ask or tell anyone. Get me my rubbers, and put these
slippers with our things. I can’t dance anymore, but as soon as supper
is over, watch for Hannah and tell me the minute she comes.”

“They are going out to supper now. I’ll stay with you. I’d rather.”

“No, dear, run along, and bring me some coffee. I’m so tired I can’t
stir.”

So Meg reclined, with rubbers well hidden, and Jo went blundering away
to the dining room, which she found after going into a china closet,
and opening the door of a room where old Mr. Gardiner was taking a
little private refreshment. Making a dart at the table, she secured the
coffee, which she immediately spilled, thereby making the front of her
dress as bad as the back.

“Oh, dear, what a blunderbuss I am!” exclaimed Jo, finishing Meg’s
glove by scrubbing her gown with it.

“Can I help you?” said a friendly voice. And there was Laurie, with a
full cup in one hand and a plate of ice in the other.

“I was trying to get something for Meg, who is very tired, and someone
shook me, and here I am in a nice state,” answered Jo, glancing
dismally from the stained skirt to the coffee-colored glove.

“Too bad! I was looking for someone to give this to. May I take it to
your sister?”

“Oh, thank you! I’ll show you where she is. I don’t offer to take it
myself, for I should only get into another scrape if I did.”

Jo led the way, and as if used to waiting on ladies, Laurie drew up a
little table, brought a second installment of coffee and ice for Jo,
and was so obliging that even particular Meg pronounced him a ‘nice
boy’. They had a merry time over the bonbons and mottoes, and were in
the midst of a quiet game of _Buzz_, with two or three other young
people who had strayed in, when Hannah appeared. Meg forgot her foot
and rose so quickly that she was forced to catch hold of Jo, with an
exclamation of pain.

“Hush! Don’t say anything,” she whispered, adding aloud, “It’s nothing.
I turned my foot a little, that’s all,” and limped upstairs to put her
things on.