Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo was at her wits’ end, till she
decided to take things into her own hands. Slipping out, she ran down
and, finding a servant, asked if he could get her a carriage. It
happened to be a hired waiter who knew nothing about the neighborhood
and Jo was looking round for help when Laurie, who had heard what she
said, came up and offered his grandfather’s carriage, which had just
come for him, he said.

“It’s so early! You can’t mean to go yet?” began Jo, looking relieved
but hesitating to accept the offer.

“I always go early, I do, truly! Please let me take you home. It’s all
on my way, you know, and it rains, they say.”

That settled it, and telling him of Meg’s mishap, Jo gratefully
accepted and rushed up to bring down the rest of the party. Hannah
hated rain as much as a cat does so she made no trouble, and they
rolled away in the luxurious close carriage, feeling very festive and
elegant. Laurie went on the box so Meg could keep her foot up, and the
girls talked over their party in freedom.

“I had a capital time. Did you?” asked Jo, rumpling up her hair, and
making herself comfortable.

“Yes, till I hurt myself. Sallie’s friend, Annie Moffat, took a fancy
to me, and asked me to come and spend a week with her when Sallie does.
She is going in the spring when the opera comes, and it will be
perfectly splendid, if Mother only lets me go,” answered Meg, cheering
up at the thought.

“I saw you dancing with the red headed man I ran away from. Was he
nice?”

“Oh, very! His hair is auburn, not red, and he was very polite, and I
had a delicious redowa with him.”

“He looked like a grasshopper in a fit when he did the new step. Laurie
and I couldn’t help laughing. Did you hear us?”

“No, but it was very rude. What were you about all that time, hidden
away there?”

Jo told her adventures, and by the time she had finished they were at
home. With many thanks, they said good night and crept in, hoping to
disturb no one, but the instant their door creaked, two little
nightcaps bobbed up, and two sleepy but eager voices cried out...

“Tell about the party! Tell about the party!”

With what Meg called ‘a great want of manners’ Jo had saved some
bonbons for the little girls, and they soon subsided, after hearing the
most thrilling events of the evening.

“I declare, it really seems like being a fine young lady, to come home
from the party in a carriage and sit in my dressing gown with a maid to
wait on me,” said Meg, as Jo bound up her foot with arnica and brushed
her hair.