“You’re the crossest person in it!” returned Amy, washing out the sum
that was all wrong with the tears that had fallen on her slate.

“Beth, if you don’t keep these horrid cats down cellar I’ll have them
drowned,” exclaimed Meg angrily as she tried to get rid of the kitten
which had scrambled up her back and stuck like a burr just out of
reach.

Jo laughed, Meg scolded, Beth implored, and Amy wailed because she
couldn’t remember how much nine times twelve was.

“Girls, girls, do be quiet one minute! I must get this off by the early
mail, and you drive me distracted with your worry,” cried Mrs. March,
crossing out the third spoiled sentence in her letter.

There was a momentary lull, broken by Hannah, who stalked in, laid two
hot turnovers on the table, and stalked out again. These turnovers were
an institution, and the girls called them ‘muffs’, for they had no
others and found the hot pies very comforting to their hands on cold
mornings.

Hannah never forgot to make them, no matter how busy or grumpy she
might be, for the walk was long and bleak. The poor things got no other
lunch and were seldom home before two.

“Cuddle your cats and get over your headache, Bethy. Goodbye, Marmee.
We are a set of rascals this morning, but we’ll come home regular
angels. Now then, Meg!” And Jo tramped away, feeling that the pilgrims
were not setting out as they ought to do.

They always looked back before turning the corner, for their mother was
always at the window to nod and smile, and wave her hand to them.
Somehow it seemed as if they couldn’t have got through the day without
that, for whatever their mood might be, the last glimpse of that
motherly face was sure to affect them like sunshine.

“If Marmee shook her fist instead of kissing her hand to us, it would
serve us right, for more ungrateful wretches than we are were never
seen,” cried Jo, taking a remorseful satisfaction in the snowy walk and
bitter wind.

“Don’t use such dreadful expressions,” replied Meg from the depths of
the veil in which she had shrouded herself like a nun sick of the
world.

“I like good strong words that mean something,” replied Jo, catching
her hat as it took a leap off her head preparatory to flying away
altogether.

“Call yourself any names you like, but I am neither a rascal nor a
wretch and I don’t choose to be called so.”

“You’re a blighted being, and decidedly cross today because you can’t
sit in the lap of luxury all the time. Poor dear, just wait till I make
my fortune, and you shall revel in carriages and ice cream and
high-heeled slippers, and posies, and red-headed boys to dance with.”

“How ridiculous you are, Jo!” But Meg laughed at the nonsense and felt
better in spite of herself.