Beth was too bashful to go to school. It had been tried, but she
suffered so much that it was given up, and she did her lessons at home
with her father. Even when he went away, and her mother was called to
devote her skill and energy to Soldiers’ Aid Societies, Beth went
faithfully on by herself and did the best she could. She was a
housewifely little creature, and helped Hannah keep home neat and
comfortable for the workers, never thinking of any reward but to be
loved. Long, quiet days she spent, not lonely nor idle, for her little
world was peopled with imaginary friends, and she was by nature a busy
bee. There were six dolls to be taken up and dressed every morning, for
Beth was a child still and loved her pets as well as ever. Not one
whole or handsome one among them, all were outcasts till Beth took them
in, for when her sisters outgrew these idols, they passed to her
because Amy would have nothing old or ugly. Beth cherished them all the
more tenderly for that very reason, and set up a hospital for infirm
dolls. No pins were ever stuck into their cotton vitals, no harsh words
or blows were ever given them, no neglect ever saddened the heart of
the most repulsive, but all were fed and clothed, nursed and caressed
with an affection which never failed. One forlorn fragment of dollanity
had belonged to Jo and, having led a tempestuous life, was left a wreck
in the rag bag, from which dreary poorhouse it was rescued by Beth and
taken to her refuge. Having no top to its head, she tied on a neat
little cap, and as both arms and legs were gone, she hid these
deficiencies by folding it in a blanket and devoting her best bed to
this chronic invalid. If anyone had known the care lavished on that
dolly, I think it would have touched their hearts, even while they
laughed. She brought it bits of bouquets, she read to it, took it out
to breathe fresh air, hidden under her coat, she sang it lullabies and
never went to bed without kissing its dirty face and whispering
tenderly, “I hope you’ll have a good night, my poor dear.”