Amy was in a fair way to be spoiled, for everyone petted her, and her
small vanities and selfishnesses were growing nicely. One thing,
however, rather quenched the vanities. She had to wear her cousin’s
clothes. Now Florence’s mama hadn’t a particle of taste, and Amy
suffered deeply at having to wear a red instead of a blue bonnet,
unbecoming gowns, and fussy aprons that did not fit. Everything was
good, well made, and little worn, but Amy’s artistic eyes were much
afflicted, especially this winter, when her school dress was a dull
purple with yellow dots and no trimming.

“My only comfort,” she said to Meg, with tears in her eyes, “is that
Mother doesn’t take tucks in my dresses whenever I’m naughty, as Maria
Parks’s mother does. My dear, it’s really dreadful, for sometimes she
is so bad her frock is up to her knees, and she can’t come to school.
When I think of this _deggerredation_, I feel that I can bear even my
flat nose and purple gown with yellow sky-rockets on it.”

Meg was Amy’s confidant and monitor, and by some strange attraction of
opposites Jo was gentle Beth’s. To Jo alone did the shy child tell her
thoughts, and over her big harum-scarum sister Beth unconsciously
exercised more influence than anyone in the family. The two older girls
were a great deal to one another, but each took one of the younger
sisters into her keeping and watched over her in her own way, ‘playing
mother’ they called it, and put their sisters in the places of
discarded dolls with the maternal instinct of little women.

“Has anybody got anything to tell? It’s been such a dismal day I’m
really dying for some amusement,” said Meg, as they sat sewing together
that evening.

“I had a queer time with Aunt today, and, as I got the best of it, I’ll
tell you about it,” began Jo, who dearly loved to tell stories. “I was
reading that everlasting Belsham, and droning away as I always do, for
Aunt soon drops off, and then I take out some nice book, and read like
fury till she wakes up. I actually made myself sleepy, and before she
began to nod, I gave such a gape that she asked me what I meant by
opening my mouth wide enough to take the whole book in at once.”

“I wish I could, and be done with it,” said I, trying not to be saucy.