“Then she gave me a long lecture on my sins, and told me to sit and
think them over while she just ‘lost’ herself for a moment. She never
finds herself very soon, so the minute her cap began to bob like a
top-heavy dahlia, I whipped the _Vicar of Wakefield_ out of my pocket,
and read away, with one eye on him and one on Aunt. I’d just got to
where they all tumbled into the water when I forgot and laughed out
loud. Aunt woke up and, being more good-natured after her nap, told me
to read a bit and show what frivolous work I preferred to the worthy
and instructive Belsham. I did my very best, and she liked it, though
she only said...

“‘I don’t understand what it’s all about. Go back and begin it,
child.’”

“Back I went, and made the Primroses as interesting as ever I could.
Once I was wicked enough to stop in a thrilling place, and say meekly,
‘I’m afraid it tires you, ma’am. Shan’t I stop now?’”

“She caught up her knitting, which had dropped out of her hands, gave
me a sharp look through her specs, and said, in her short way, ‘Finish
the chapter, and don’t be impertinent, miss’.”

“Did she own she liked it?” asked Meg.

“Oh, bless you, no! But she let old Belsham rest, and when I ran back
after my gloves this afternoon, there she was, so hard at the Vicar
that she didn’t hear me laugh as I danced a jig in the hall because of
the good time coming. What a pleasant life she might have if only she
chose! I don’t envy her much, in spite of her money, for after all rich
people have about as many worries as poor ones, I think,” added Jo.

“That reminds me,” said Meg, “that I’ve got something to tell. It isn’t
funny, like Jo’s story, but I thought about it a good deal as I came
home. At the Kings’ today I found everybody in a flurry, and one of the
children said that her oldest brother had done something dreadful, and
Papa had sent him away. I heard Mrs. King crying and Mr. King talking
very loud, and Grace and Ellen turned away their faces when they passed
me, so I shouldn’t see how red and swollen their eyes were. I didn’t
ask any questions, of course, but I felt so sorry for them and was
rather glad I hadn’t any wild brothers to do wicked things and disgrace
the family.”