When they had laughed at Beth’s story, they asked their mother for one,
and after a moments thought, she said soberly, “As I sat cutting out
blue flannel jackets today at the rooms, I felt very anxious about
Father, and thought how lonely and helpless we should be, if anything
happened to him. It was not a wise thing to do, but I kept on worrying
till an old man came in with an order for some clothes. He sat down
near me, and I began to talk to him, for he looked poor and tired and
anxious.

“‘Have you sons in the army?’ I asked, for the note he brought was not
to me.”

“Yes, ma’am. I had four, but two were killed, one is a prisoner, and
I’m going to the other, who is very sick in a Washington hospital.’ he
answered quietly.”

“‘You have done a great deal for your country, sir,’ I said, feeling
respect now, instead of pity.”

“‘Not a mite more than I ought, ma’am. I’d go myself, if I was any use.
As I ain’t, I give my boys, and give ’em free.’”

“He spoke so cheerfully, looked so sincere, and seemed so glad to give
his all, that I was ashamed of myself. I’d given one man and thought it
too much, while he gave four without grudging them. I had all my girls
to comfort me at home, and his last son was waiting, miles away, to say
good-by to him, perhaps! I felt so rich, so happy thinking of my
blessings, that I made him a nice bundle, gave him some money, and
thanked him heartily for the lesson he had taught me.”

“Tell another story, Mother, one with a moral to it, like this. I like
to think about them afterward, if they are real and not too preachy,”
said Jo, after a minute’s silence.

Mrs. March smiled and began at once, for she had told stories to this
little audience for many years, and knew how to please them.

“Once upon a time, there were four girls, who had enough to eat and
drink and wear, a good many comforts and pleasures, kind friends and
parents who loved them dearly, and yet they were not contented.” (Here
the listeners stole sly looks at one another, and began to sew
diligently.) “These girls were anxious to be good and made many
excellent resolutions, but they did not keep them very well, and were
constantly saying, ‘If only we had this,’ or ‘If we could only do
that,’ quite forgetting how much they already had, and how many things
they actually could do. So they asked an old woman what spell they
could use to make them happy, and she said, ‘When you feel
discontented, think over your blessings, and be grateful.’” (Here Jo
looked up quickly, as if about to speak, but changed her mind, seeing
that the story was not done yet.)