“Being sensible girls, they decided to try her advice, and soon were
surprised to see how well off they were. One discovered that money
couldn’t keep shame and sorrow out of rich people’s houses, another
that, though she was poor, she was a great deal happier, with her
youth, health, and good spirits, than a certain fretful, feeble old
lady who couldn’t enjoy her comforts, a third that, disagreeable as it
was to help get dinner, it was harder still to go begging for it and
the fourth, that even carnelian rings were not so valuable as good
behavior. So they agreed to stop complaining, to enjoy the blessings
already possessed, and try to deserve them, lest they should be taken
away entirely, instead of increased, and I believe they were never
disappointed or sorry that they took the old woman’s advice.”

“Now, Marmee, that is very cunning of you to turn our own stories
against us, and give us a sermon instead of a romance!” cried Meg.

“I like that kind of sermon. It’s the sort Father used to tell us,”
said Beth thoughtfully, putting the needles straight on Jo’s cushion.

“I don’t complain near as much as the others do, and I shall be more
careful than ever now, for I’ve had warning from Susie’s downfall,”
said Amy morally.

“We needed that lesson, and we won’t forget it. If we do so, you just
say to us, as old Chloe did in _Uncle Tom_, ‘Tink ob yer marcies,
chillen!’ ‘Tink ob yer marcies!’” added Jo, who could not, for the life
of her, help getting a morsel of fun out of the little sermon, though
she took it to heart as much as any of them.

CHAPTER FIVE
BEING NEIGHBORLY

“What in the world are you going to do now, Jo?” asked Meg one snowy
afternoon, as her sister came tramping through the hall, in rubber
boots, old sack, and hood, with a broom in one hand and a shovel in the
other.

“Going out for exercise,” answered Jo with a mischievous twinkle in her
eyes.

“I should think two long walks this morning would have been enough!
It’s cold and dull out, and I advise you to stay warm and dry by the
fire, as I do,” said Meg with a shiver.

“Never take advice! Can’t keep still all day, and not being a pussycat,
I don’t like to doze by the fire. I like adventures, and I’m going to
find some.”