“It isn’t anything, only they all felt kindly and wanted to show it.
Tell the girl to put it away for your tea. It’s so simple you can eat
it, and being soft, it will slip down without hurting your sore throat.
What a cozy room this is!”

“It might be if it was kept nice, but the maids are lazy, and I don’t
know how to make them mind. It worries me though.”

“I’ll right it up in two minutes, for it only needs to have the hearth
brushed, so—and the things made straight on the mantelpiece, so—and the
books put here, and the bottles there, and your sofa turned from the
light, and the pillows plumped up a bit. Now then, you’re fixed.”

And so he was, for, as she laughed and talked, Jo had whisked things
into place and given quite a different air to the room. Laurie watched
her in respectful silence, and when she beckoned him to his sofa, he
sat down with a sigh of satisfaction, saying gratefully...

“How kind you are! Yes, that’s what it wanted. Now please take the big
chair and let me do something to amuse my company.”

“No, I came to amuse you. Shall I read aloud?” and Jo looked
affectionately toward some inviting books near by.

“Thank you! I’ve read all those, and if you don’t mind, I’d rather
talk,” answered Laurie.

“Not a bit. I’ll talk all day if you’ll only set me going. Beth says I
never know when to stop.”

“Is Beth the rosy one, who stays at home good deal and sometimes goes
out with a little basket?” asked Laurie with interest.

“Yes, that’s Beth. She’s my girl, and a regular good one she is, too.”

“The pretty one is Meg, and the curly-haired one is Amy, I believe?”

“How did you find that out?”

Laurie colored up, but answered frankly, “Why, you see I often hear you
calling to one another, and when I’m alone up here, I can’t help
looking over at your house, you always seem to be having such good
times. I beg your pardon for being so rude, but sometimes you forget to
put down the curtain at the window where the flowers are. And when the
lamps are lighted, it’s like looking at a picture to see the fire, and
you all around the table with your mother. Her face is right opposite,
and it looks so sweet behind the flowers, I can’t help watching it. I
haven’t got any mother, you know.” And Laurie poked the fire to hide a
little twitching of the lips that he could not control.