“Would you mind if I left you for a minute? I suppose I must see him,”
said Laurie.

“Don’t mind me. I’m happy as a cricket here,” answered Jo.

Laurie went away, and his guest amused herself in her own way. She was
standing before a fine portrait of the old gentleman when the door
opened again, and without turning, she said decidedly, “I’m sure now
that I shouldn’t be afraid of him, for he’s got kind eyes, though his
mouth is grim, and he looks as if he had a tremendous will of his own.
He isn’t as handsome as my grandfather, but I like him.”

“Thank you, ma’am,” said a gruff voice behind her, and there, to her
great dismay, stood old Mr. Laurence.

Poor Jo blushed till she couldn’t blush any redder, and her heart began
to beat uncomfortably fast as she thought what she had said. For a
minute a wild desire to run away possessed her, but that was cowardly,
and the girls would laugh at her, so she resolved to stay and get out
of the scrape as she could. A second look showed her that the living
eyes, under the bushy eyebrows, were kinder even than the painted ones,
and there was a sly twinkle in them, which lessened her fear a good
deal. The gruff voice was gruffer than ever, as the old gentleman said
abruptly, after the dreadful pause, “So you’re not afraid of me, hey?”

“Not much, sir.”

“And you don’t think me as handsome as your grandfather?”

“Not quite, sir.”

“And I’ve got a tremendous will, have I?”

“I only said I thought so.”

“But you like me in spite of it?”

“Yes, I do, sir.”

That answer pleased the old gentleman. He gave a short laugh, shook
hands with her, and, putting his finger under her chin, turned up her
face, examined it gravely, and let it go, saying with a nod, “You’ve
got your grandfather’s spirit, if you haven’t his face. He was a fine
man, my dear, but what is better, he was a brave and an honest one, and
I was proud to be his friend.”

“Thank you, sir,” And Jo was quite comfortable after that, for it
suited her exactly.

“What have you been doing to this boy of mine, hey?” was the next
question, sharply put.

“Only trying to be neighborly, sir.” And Jo told how her visit came
about.

“You think he needs cheering up a bit, do you?”

“Yes, sir, he seems a little lonely, and young folks would do him good
perhaps. We are only girls, but we should be glad to help if we could,
for we don’t forget the splendid Christmas present you sent us,” said
Jo eagerly.

“Tut, tut, tut! That was the boy’s affair. How is the poor woman?”

“Doing nicely, sir.” And off went Jo, talking very fast, as she told
all about the Hummels, in whom her mother had interested richer friends
than they were.