“Please do now. I want to hear it, so I can tell Beth.”

“Won’t you first?”

“Don’t know how. Too stupid to learn, but I love music dearly.”

So Laurie played and Jo listened, with her nose luxuriously buried in
heliotrope and tea roses. Her respect and regard for the ‘Laurence’ boy
increased very much, for he played remarkably well and didn’t put on
any airs. She wished Beth could hear him, but she did not say so, only
praised him till he was quite abashed, and his grandfather came to his
rescue.

“That will do, that will do, young lady. Too many sugarplums are not
good for him. His music isn’t bad, but I hope he will do as well in
more important things. Going? well, I’m much obliged to you, and I hope
you’ll come again. My respects to your mother. Good night, Doctor Jo.”

He shook hands kindly, but looked as if something did not please him.
When they got into the hall, Jo asked Laurie if she had said something
amiss. He shook his head.

“No, it was me. He doesn’t like to hear me play.”

“Why not?”

“I’ll tell you some day. John is going home with you, as I can’t.”

“No need of that. I am not a young lady, and it’s only a step. Take
care of yourself, won’t you?”

“Yes, but you will come again, I hope?”

“If you promise to come and see us after you are well.”

“I will.”

“Good night, Laurie!”

“Good night, Jo, good night!”

When all the afternoon’s adventures had been told, the family felt
inclined to go visiting in a body, for each found something very
attractive in the big house on the other side of the hedge. Mrs. March
wanted to talk of her father with the old man who had not forgotten
him, Meg longed to walk in the conservatory, Beth sighed for the grand
piano, and Amy was eager to see the fine pictures and statues.

“Mother, why didn’t Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play?” asked Jo,
who was of an inquiring disposition.

“I am not sure, but I think it was because his son, Laurie’s father,
married an Italian lady, a musician, which displeased the old man, who
is very proud. The lady was good and lovely and accomplished, but he
did not like her, and never saw his son after he married. They both
died when Laurie was a little child, and then his grandfather took him
home. I fancy the boy, who was born in Italy, is not very strong, and
the old man is afraid of losing him, which makes him so careful. Laurie
comes naturally by his love of music, for he is like his mother, and I
dare say his grandfather fears that he may want to be a musician. At
any rate, his skill reminds him of the woman he did not like, and so he
‘glowered’ as Jo said.”

“Dear me, how romantic!” exclaimed Meg.