“How silly!” said Jo. “Let him be a musician if he wants to, and not
plague his life out sending him to college, when he hates to go.”

“That’s why he has such handsome black eyes and pretty manners, I
suppose. Italians are always nice,” said Meg, who was a little
sentimental.

“What do you know about his eyes and his manners? You never spoke to
him, hardly,” cried Jo, who was not sentimental.

“I saw him at the party, and what you tell shows that he knows how to
behave. That was a nice little speech about the medicine Mother sent
him.”

“He meant the blanc mange, I suppose.”

“How stupid you are, child! He meant you, of course.”

“Did he?” And Jo opened her eyes as if it had never occurred to her
before.

“I never saw such a girl! You don’t know a compliment when you get it,”
said Meg, with the air of a young lady who knew all about the matter.

“I think they are great nonsense, and I’ll thank you not to be silly
and spoil my fun. Laurie’s a nice boy and I like him, and I won’t have
any sentimental stuff about compliments and such rubbish. We’ll all be
good to him because he hasn’t got any mother, and he may come over and
see us, mayn’t he, Marmee?”

“Yes, Jo, your little friend is very welcome, and I hope Meg will
remember that children should be children as long as they can.”

“I don’t call myself a child, and I’m not in my teens yet,” observed
Amy. “What do you say, Beth?”

“I was thinking about our ‘_Pilgrim’s Progress_’,” answered Beth, who
had not heard a word. “How we got out of the Slough and through the
Wicket Gate by resolving to be good, and up the steep hill by trying,
and that maybe the house over there, full of splendid things, is going
to be our Palace Beautiful.”

“We have got to get by the lions first,” said Jo, as if she rather
liked the prospect.

CHAPTER SIX
BETH FINDS THE PALACE BEAUTIFUL

The big house did prove a Palace Beautiful, though it took some time
for all to get in, and Beth found it very hard to pass the lions. Old
Mr. Laurence was the biggest one, but after he had called, said
something funny or kind to each one of the girls, and talked over old
times with their mother, nobody felt much afraid of him, except timid
Beth. The other lion was the fact that they were poor and Laurie rich,
for this made them shy of accepting favors which they could not return.
But, after a while, they found that he considered them the benefactors,
and could not do enough to show how grateful he was for Mrs. March’s
motherly welcome, their cheerful society, and the comfort he took in
that humble home of theirs. So they soon forgot their pride and
interchanged kindnesses without stopping to think which was the
greater.