“You are sure there are no more?”

“I never lie, sir.”

“So I see. Now take these disgusting things two by two, and throw them
out of the window.”

There was a simultaneous sigh, which created quite a little gust, as
the last hope fled, and the treat was ravished from their longing lips.
Scarlet with shame and anger, Amy went to and fro six dreadful times,
and as each doomed couple, looking oh, so plump and juicy, fell from
her reluctant hands, a shout from the street completed the anguish of
the girls, for it told them that their feast was being exulted over by
the little Irish children, who were their sworn foes. This—this was too
much. All flashed indignant or appealing glances at the inexorable
Davis, and one passionate lime lover burst into tears.

As Amy returned from her last trip, Mr. Davis gave a portentous “Hem!”
and said, in his most impressive manner...

“Young ladies, you remember what I said to you a week ago. I am sorry
this has happened, but I never allow my rules to be infringed, and I
never break my word. Miss March, hold out your hand.”

Amy started, and put both hands behind her, turning on him an imploring
look which pleaded for her better than the words she could not utter.
She was rather a favorite with ‘old Davis’, as, of course, he was
called, and it’s my private belief that he would have broken his word
if the indignation of one irrepressible young lady had not found vent
in a hiss. That hiss, faint as it was, irritated the irascible
gentleman, and sealed the culprit’s fate.

“Your hand, Miss March!” was the only answer her mute appeal received,
and too proud to cry or beseech, Amy set her teeth, threw back her head
defiantly, and bore without flinching several tingling blows on her
little palm. They were neither many nor heavy, but that made no
difference to her. For the first time in her life she had been struck,
and the disgrace, in her eyes, was as deep as if he had knocked her
down.

“You will now stand on the platform till recess,” said Mr. Davis,
resolved to do the thing thoroughly, since he had begun.

That was dreadful. It would have been bad enough to go to her seat, and
see the pitying faces of her friends, or the satisfied ones of her few
enemies, but to face the whole school, with that shame fresh upon her,
seemed impossible, and for a second she felt as if she could only drop
down where she stood, and break her heart with crying. A bitter sense
of wrong and the thought of Jenny Snow helped her to bear it, and,
taking the ignominious place, she fixed her eyes on the stove funnel
above what now seemed a sea of faces, and stood there, so motionless
and white that the girls found it hard to study with that pathetic
figure before them.