“I should not have chosen that way of mending a fault,” replied her
mother, “but I’m not sure that it won’t do you more good than a bolder
method. You are getting to be rather conceited, my dear, and it is
quite time you set about correcting it. You have a good many little
gifts and virtues, but there is no need of parading them, for conceit
spoils the finest genius. There is not much danger that real talent or
goodness will be overlooked long, even if it is, the consciousness of
possessing and using it well should satisfy one, and the great charm of
all power is modesty.”

“So it is!” cried Laurie, who was playing chess in a corner with Jo. “I
knew a girl once, who had a really remarkable talent for music, and she
didn’t know it, never guessed what sweet little things she composed
when she was alone, and wouldn’t have believed it if anyone had told
her.”

“I wish I’d known that nice girl. Maybe she would have helped me, I’m
so stupid,” said Beth, who stood beside him, listening eagerly.

“You do know her, and she helps you better than anyone else could,”
answered Laurie, looking at her with such mischievous meaning in his
merry black eyes that Beth suddenly turned very red, and hid her face
in the sofa cushion, quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery.

Jo let Laurie win the game to pay for that praise of her Beth, who
could not be prevailed upon to play for them after her compliment. So
Laurie did his best, and sang delightfully, being in a particularly
lively humor, for to the Marches he seldom showed the moody side of his
character. When he was gone, Amy, who had been pensive all evening,
said suddenly, as if busy over some new idea, “Is Laurie an
accomplished boy?”

“Yes, he has had an excellent education, and has much talent. He will
make a fine man, if not spoiled by petting,” replied her mother.

“And he isn’t conceited, is he?” asked Amy.

“Not in the least. That is why he is so charming and we all like him so
much.”

“I see. It’s nice to have accomplishments and be elegant, but not to
show off or get perked up,” said Amy thoughtfully.

“These things are always seen and felt in a person’s manner and
conversations, if modestly used, but it is not necessary to display
them,” said Mrs. March.

“Any more than it’s proper to wear all your bonnets and gowns and
ribbons at once, that folks may know you’ve got them,” added Jo, and
the lecture ended in a laugh.

CHAPTER EIGHT
JO MEETS APOLLYON

“Girls, where are you going?” asked Amy, coming into their room one
Saturday afternoon, and finding them getting ready to go out with an
air of secrecy which excited her curiosity.

“Never mind. Little girls shouldn’t ask questions,” returned Jo
sharply.