Now if there is anything mortifying to our feelings when we are young,
it is to be told that, and to be bidden to “run away, dear” is still
more trying to us. Amy bridled up at this insult, and determined to
find out the secret, if she teased for an hour. Turning to Meg, who
never refused her anything very long, she said coaxingly, “Do tell me!
I should think you might let me go, too, for Beth is fussing over her
piano, and I haven’t got anything to do, and am so lonely.”

“I can’t, dear, because you aren’t invited,” began Meg, but Jo broke in
impatiently, “Now, Meg, be quiet or you will spoil it all. You can’t
go, Amy, so don’t be a baby and whine about it.”

“You are going somewhere with Laurie, I know you are. You were
whispering and laughing together on the sofa last night, and you
stopped when I came in. Aren’t you going with him?”

“Yes, we are. Now do be still, and stop bothering.”

Amy held her tongue, but used her eyes, and saw Meg slip a fan into her
pocket.

“I know! I know! You’re going to the theater to see the _Seven
Castles!_” she cried, adding resolutely, “and I shall go, for Mother
said I might see it, and I’ve got my rag money, and it was mean not to
tell me in time.”

“Just listen to me a minute, and be a good child,” said Meg soothingly.
“Mother doesn’t wish you to go this week, because your eyes are not
well enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece. Next week you
can go with Beth and Hannah, and have a nice time.”

“I don’t like that half as well as going with you and Laurie. Please
let me. I’ve been sick with this cold so long, and shut up, I’m dying
for some fun. Do, Meg! I’ll be ever so good,” pleaded Amy, looking as
pathetic as she could.

“Suppose we take her. I don’t believe Mother would mind, if we bundle
her up well,” began Meg.

“If she goes I shan’t, and if I don’t, Laurie won’t like it, and it
will be very rude, after he invited only us, to go and drag in Amy. I
should think she’d hate to poke herself where she isn’t wanted,” said
Jo crossly, for she disliked the trouble of overseeing a fidgety child
when she wanted to enjoy herself.

Her tone and manner angered Amy, who began to put her boots on, saying,
in her most aggravating way, “I shall go. Meg says I may, and if I pay
for myself, Laurie hasn’t anything to do with it.”