“You can’t sit with us, for our seats are reserved, and you mustn’t sit
alone, so Laurie will give you his place, and that will spoil our
pleasure. Or he’ll get another seat for you, and that isn’t proper when
you weren’t asked. You shan’t stir a step, so you may just stay where
you are,” scolded Jo, crosser than ever, having just pricked her finger
in her hurry.

Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg to
reason with her, when Laurie called from below, and the two girls
hurried down, leaving their sister wailing. For now and then she forgot
her grown-up ways and acted like a spoiled child. Just as the party was
setting out, Amy called over the banisters in a threatening tone,
“You’ll be sorry for this, Jo March, see if you ain’t.”

“Fiddlesticks!” returned Jo, slamming the door.

They had a charming time, for _The Seven Castles Of The Diamond Lake_
was as brilliant and wonderful as heart could wish. But in spite of the
comical red imps, sparkling elves, and the gorgeous princes and
princesses, Jo’s pleasure had a drop of bitterness in it. The fairy
queen’s yellow curls reminded her of Amy, and between the acts she
amused herself with wondering what her sister would do to make her
‘sorry for it’. She and Amy had had many lively skirmishes in the
course of their lives, for both had quick tempers and were apt to be
violent when fairly roused. Amy teased Jo, and Jo irritated Amy, and
semioccasional explosions occurred, of which both were much ashamed
afterward. Although the oldest, Jo had the least self-control, and had
hard times trying to curb the fiery spirit which was continually
getting her into trouble. Her anger never lasted long, and having
humbly confessed her fault, she sincerely repented and tried to do
better. Her sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a
fury because she was such an angel afterward. Poor Jo tried desperately
to be good, but her bosom enemy was always ready to flame up and defeat
her, and it took years of patient effort to subdue it.

When they got home, they found Amy reading in the parlor. She assumed
an injured air as they came in, never lifted her eyes from her book, or
asked a single question. Perhaps curiosity might have conquered
resentment, if Beth had not been there to inquire and receive a glowing
description of the play. On going up to put away her best hat, Jo’s
first look was toward the bureau, for in their last quarrel Amy had
soothed her feelings by turning Jo’s top drawer upside down on the
floor. Everything was in its place, however, and after a hasty glance
into her various closets, bags, and boxes, Jo decided that Amy had
forgiven and forgotten her wrongs.