How she did it, she never knew, but for the next few minutes she worked
as if possessed, blindly obeying Laurie, who was quite self-possessed,
and lying flat, held Amy up by his arm and hockey stick till Jo dragged
a rail from the fence, and together they got the child out, more
frightened than hurt.

“Now then, we must walk her home as fast as we can. Pile our things on
her, while I get off these confounded skates,” cried Laurie, wrapping
his coat round Amy, and tugging away at the straps which never seemed
so intricate before.

Shivering, dripping, and crying, they got Amy home, and after an
exciting time of it, she fell asleep, rolled in blankets before a hot
fire. During the bustle Jo had scarcely spoken but flown about, looking
pale and wild, with her things half off, her dress torn, and her hands
cut and bruised by ice and rails and refractory buckles. When Amy was
comfortably asleep, the house quiet, and Mrs. March sitting by the bed,
she called Jo to her and began to bind up the hurt hands.

“Are you sure she is safe?” whispered Jo, looking remorsefully at the
golden head, which might have been swept away from her sight forever
under the treacherous ice.

“Quite safe, dear. She is not hurt, and won’t even take cold, I think,
you were so sensible in covering and getting her home quickly,” replied
her mother cheerfully.

“Laurie did it all. I only let her go. Mother, if she should die, it
would be my fault.” And Jo dropped down beside the bed in a passion of
penitent tears, telling all that had happened, bitterly condemning her
hardness of heart, and sobbing out her gratitude for being spared the
heavy punishment which might have come upon her.

“It’s my dreadful temper! I try to cure it, I think I have, and then it
breaks out worse than ever. Oh, Mother, what shall I do? What shall I
do?” cried poor Jo, in despair.

“Watch and pray, dear, never get tired of trying, and never think it is
impossible to conquer your fault,” said Mrs. March, drawing the blowzy
head to her shoulder and kissing the wet cheek so tenderly that Jo
cried even harder.

“You don’t know, you can’t guess how bad it is! It seems as if I could
do anything when I’m in a passion. I get so savage, I could hurt anyone
and enjoy it. I’m afraid I shall do something dreadful some day, and
spoil my life, and make everybody hate me. Oh, Mother, help me, do help
me!”

“I will, my child, I will. Don’t cry so bitterly, but remember this
day, and resolve with all your soul that you will never know another
like it. Jo, dear, we all have our temptations, some far greater than
yours, and it often takes us all our lives to conquer them. You think
your temper is the worst in the world, but mine used to be just like
it.”