“I wish I was going to have a fine time and wear all these nice
things,” said Amy with her mouth full of pins, as she artistically
replenished her sister’s cushion.

“I wish you were all going, but as you can’t, I shall keep my
adventures to tell you when I come back. I’m sure it’s the least I can
do when you have been so kind, lending me things and helping me get
ready,” said Meg, glancing round the room at the very simple outfit,
which seemed nearly perfect in their eyes.

“What did Mother give you out of the treasure box?” asked Amy, who had
not been present at the opening of a certain cedar chest in which Mrs.
March kept a few relics of past splendor, as gifts for her girls when
the proper time came.

“A pair of silk stockings, that pretty carved fan, and a lovely blue
sash. I wanted the violet silk, but there isn’t time to make it over,
so I must be contented with my old tarlaton.”

“It will look nice over my new muslin skirt, and the sash will set it
off beautifully. I wish I hadn’t smashed my coral bracelet, for you
might have had it,” said Jo, who loved to give and lend, but whose
possessions were usually too dilapidated to be of much use.

“There is a lovely old-fashioned pearl set in the treasure chest, but
Mother said real flowers were the prettiest ornament for a young girl,
and Laurie promised to send me all I want,” replied Meg. “Now, let me
see, there’s my new gray walking suit, just curl up the feather in my
hat, Beth, then my poplin for Sunday and the small party, it looks
heavy for spring, doesn’t it? The violet silk would be so nice. Oh,
dear!”

“Never mind, you’ve got the tarlaton for the big party, and you always
look like an angel in white,” said Amy, brooding over the little store
of finery in which her soul delighted.

“It isn’t low-necked, and it doesn’t sweep enough, but it will have to
do. My blue housedress looks so well, turned and freshly trimmed, that
I feel as if I’d got a new one. My silk sacque isn’t a bit the fashion,
and my bonnet doesn’t look like Sallie’s. I didn’t like to say
anything, but I was sadly disappointed in my umbrella. I told Mother
black with a white handle, but she forgot and bought a green one with a
yellowish handle. It’s strong and neat, so I ought not to complain, but
I know I shall feel ashamed of it beside Annie’s silk one with a gold
top,” sighed Meg, surveying the little umbrella with great disfavor.

“Change it,” advised Jo.