“She’s proud, but I don’t believe she’d mind, for that dowdy tarlaton
is all she has got. She may tear it tonight, and that will be a good
excuse for offering a decent one.”

Here Meg’s partner appeared, to find her looking much flushed and
rather agitated. She was proud, and her pride was useful just then, for
it helped her hide her mortification, anger, and disgust at what she
had just heard. For, innocent and unsuspicious as she was, she could
not help understanding the gossip of her friends. She tried to forget
it, but could not, and kept repeating to herself, “Mrs. M. has made her
plans,” “that fib about her mamma,” and “dowdy tarlaton,” till she was
ready to cry and rush home to tell her troubles and ask for advice. As
that was impossible, she did her best to seem gay, and being rather
excited, she succeeded so well that no one dreamed what an effort she
was making. She was very glad when it was all over and she was quiet in
her bed, where she could think and wonder and fume till her head ached
and her hot cheeks were cooled by a few natural tears. Those foolish,
yet well meant words, had opened a new world to Meg, and much disturbed
the peace of the old one in which till now she had lived as happily as
a child. Her innocent friendship with Laurie was spoiled by the silly
others by herself, and the sensible resolution to be contented with the
simple wardrobe which suited a poor man’s daughter was weakened by the
unnecessary pity of girls who thought a shabby dress one of the
greatest calamities under heaven.

Poor Meg had a restless night, and got up heavy-eyed, unhappy, half
resentful toward her friends, and half ashamed of herself for not
speaking out frankly and setting everything right. Everybody dawdled
that morning, and it was noon before the girls found energy enough even
to take up their worsted work. Something in the manner of her friends
struck Meg at once. They treated her with more respect, she thought,
took quite a tender interest in what she said, and looked at her with
eyes that plainly betrayed curiosity. All this surprised and flattered
her, though she did not understand it till Miss Belle looked up from
her writing, and said, with a sentimental air...

“Daisy, dear, I’ve sent an invitation to your friend, Mr. Laurence, for
Thursday. We should like to know him, and it’s only a proper compliment
to you.”

Meg colored, but a mischievous fancy to tease the girls made her reply
demurely, “You are very kind, but I’m afraid he won’t come.”

“Why not, Cherie?” asked Miss Belle.

“He’s too old.”

“My child, what do you mean? What is his age, I beg to know!” cried
Miss Clara.

“Nearly seventy, I believe,” answered Meg, counting stitches to hide
the merriment in her eyes.

“You sly creature! Of course we meant the young man,” exclaimed Miss
Belle, laughing.