“There isn’t any, Laurie is only a little boy.” And Meg laughed also at
the queer look which the sisters exchanged as she thus described her
supposed lover.

“About your age,” Nan said.

“Nearer my sister Jo’s; I am seventeen in August,” returned Meg,
tossing her head.

“It’s very nice of him to send you flowers, isn’t it?” said Annie,
looking wise about nothing.

“Yes, he often does, to all of us, for their house is full, and we are
so fond of them. My mother and old Mr. Laurence are friends, you know,
so it is quite natural that we children should play together,” and Meg
hoped they would say no more.

“It’s evident Daisy isn’t out yet,” said Miss Clara to Belle with a
nod.

“Quite a pastoral state of innocence all round,” returned Miss Belle
with a shrug.

“I’m going out to get some little matters for my girls. Can I do
anything for you, young ladies?” asked Mrs. Moffat, lumbering in like
an elephant in silk and lace.

“No, thank you, ma’am,” replied Sallie. “I’ve got my new pink silk for
Thursday and don’t want a thing.”

“Nor I...” began Meg, but stopped because it occurred to her that she
did want several things and could not have them.

“What shall you wear?” asked Sallie.

“My old white one again, if I can mend it fit to be seen, it got sadly
torn last night,” said Meg, trying to speak quite easily, but feeling
very uncomfortable.

“Why don’t you send home for another?” said Sallie, who was not an
observing young lady.

“I haven’t got any other.” It cost Meg an effort to say that, but
Sallie did not see it and exclaimed in amiable surprise, “Only that?
How funny...” She did not finish her speech, for Belle shook her head
at her and broke in, saying kindly...

“Not at all. Where is the use of having a lot of dresses when she isn’t
out yet? There’s no need of sending home, Daisy, even if you had a
dozen, for I’ve got a sweet blue silk laid away, which I’ve outgrown,
and you shall wear it to please me, won’t you, dear?”

“You are very kind, but I don’t mind my old dress if you don’t, it does
well enough for a little girl like me,” said Meg.

“Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style. I admire to
do it, and you’d be a regular little beauty with a touch here and
there. I shan’t let anyone see you till you are done, and then we’ll
burst upon them like Cinderella and her godmother going to the ball,”
said Belle in her persuasive tone.

Meg couldn’t refuse the offer so kindly made, for a desire to see if
she would be ‘a little beauty’ after touching up caused her to accept
and forget all her former uncomfortable feelings toward the Moffats.