Keeping that warning carefully in mind, Margaret got safely down stairs
and sailed into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a few early
guests were assembled. She very soon discovered that there is a charm
about fine clothes which attracts a certain class of people and secures
their respect. Several young ladies, who had taken no notice of her
before, were very affectionate all of a sudden. Several young
gentlemen, who had only stared at her at the other party, now not only
stared, but asked to be introduced, and said all manner of foolish but
agreeable things to her, and several old ladies, who sat on the sofas,
and criticized the rest of the party, inquired who she was with an air
of interest. She heard Mrs. Moffat reply to one of them...

“Daisy March—father a colonel in the army—one of our first families,
but reverses of fortune, you know; intimate friends of the Laurences;
sweet creature, I assure you; my Ned is quite wild about her.”

“Dear me!” said the old lady, putting up her glass for another
observation of Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and been
rather shocked at Mrs. Moffat’s fibs. The ‘queer feeling’ did not pass
away, but she imagined herself acting the new part of fine lady and so
got on pretty well, though the tight dress gave her a side-ache, the
train kept getting under her feet, and she was in constant fear lest
her earrings should fly off and get lost or broken. She was flirting
her fan and laughing at the feeble jokes of a young gentleman who tried
to be witty, when she suddenly stopped laughing and looked confused,
for just opposite, she saw Laurie. He was staring at her with
undisguised surprise, and disapproval also, she thought, for though he
bowed and smiled, yet something in his honest eyes made her blush and
wish she had her old dress on. To complete her confusion, she saw Belle
nudge Annie, and both glance from her to Laurie, who, she was happy to
see, looked unusually boyish and shy.

“Silly creatures, to put such thoughts into my head. I won’t care for
it, or let it change me a bit,” thought Meg, and rustled across the
room to shake hands with her friend.

“I’m glad you came, I was afraid you wouldn’t.” she said, with her most
grown-up air.

“Jo wanted me to come, and tell her how you looked, so I did,” answered
Laurie, without turning his eyes upon her, though he half smiled at her
maternal tone.

“What shall you tell her?” asked Meg, full of curiosity to know his
opinion of her, yet feeling ill at ease with him for the first time.

“I shall say I didn’t know you, for you look so grown-up and unlike
yourself, I’m quite afraid of you,” he said, fumbling at his glove
button.