“How absurd of you! The girls dressed me up for fun, and I rather like
it. Wouldn’t Jo stare if she saw me?” said Meg, bent on making him say
whether he thought her improved or not.

“Yes, I think she would,” returned Laurie gravely.

“Don’t you like me so?” asked Meg.

“No, I don’t,” was the blunt reply.

“Why not?” in an anxious tone.

He glanced at her frizzled head, bare shoulders, and fantastically
trimmed dress with an expression that abashed her more than his answer,
which had not a particle of his usual politeness in it.

“I don’t like fuss and feathers.”

That was altogether too much from a lad younger than herself, and Meg
walked away, saying petulantly, “You are the rudest boy I ever saw.”

Feeling very much ruffled, she went and stood at a quiet window to cool
her cheeks, for the tight dress gave her an uncomfortably brilliant
color. As she stood there, Major Lincoln passed by, and a minute after
she heard him saying to his mother...

“They are making a fool of that little girl. I wanted you to see her,
but they have spoiled her entirely. She’s nothing but a doll tonight.”

“Oh, dear!” sighed Meg. “I wish I’d been sensible and worn my own
things, then I should not have disgusted other people, or felt so
uncomfortable and ashamed of myself.”

She leaned her forehead on the cool pane, and stood half hidden by the
curtains, never minding that her favorite waltz had begun, till some
one touched her, and turning, she saw Laurie, looking penitent, as he
said, with his very best bow and his hand out...

“Please forgive my rudeness, and come and dance with me.”

“I’m afraid it will be too disagreeable to you,” said Meg, trying to
look offended and failing entirely.

“Not a bit of it, I’m dying to do it. Come, I’ll be good. I don’t like
your gown, but I do think you are just splendid.” And he waved his
hands, as if words failed to express his admiration.

Meg smiled and relented, and whispered as they stood waiting to catch
the time, “Take care my skirt doesn’t trip you up. It’s the plague of
my life and I was a goose to wear it.”

“Pin it round your neck, and then it will be useful,” said Laurie,
looking down at the little blue boots, which he evidently approved of.

Away they went fleetly and gracefully, for having practiced at home,
they were well matched, and the blithe young couple were a pleasant
sight to see, as they twirled merrily round and round, feeling more
friendly than ever after their small tiff.

“Laurie, I want you to do me a favor, will you?” said Meg, as he stood
fanning her when her breath gave out, which it did very soon though she
would not own why.

“Won’t I!” said Laurie, with alacrity.

“Please don’t tell them at home about my dress tonight. They won’t
understand the joke, and it will worry Mother.”