This little bit of byplay excited Annie’s curiosity, but Meg was too
tired for gossip and went to bed, feeling as if she had been to a
masquerade and hadn’t enjoyed herself as much as she expected. She was
sick all the next day, and on Saturday went home, quite used up with
her fortnight’s fun and feeling that she had ‘sat in the lap of luxury’
long enough.

“It does seem pleasant to be quiet, and not have company manners on all
the time. Home is a nice place, though it isn’t splendid,” said Meg,
looking about her with a restful expression, as she sat with her mother
and Jo on the Sunday evening.

“I’m glad to hear you say so, dear, for I was afraid home would seem
dull and poor to you after your fine quarters,” replied her mother, who
had given her many anxious looks that day. For motherly eyes are quick
to see any change in children’s faces.

Meg had told her adventures gayly and said over and over what a
charming time she had had, but something still seemed to weigh upon her
spirits, and when the younger girls were gone to bed, she sat
thoughtfully staring at the fire, saying little and looking worried. As
the clock struck nine and Jo proposed bed, Meg suddenly left her chair
and, taking Beth’s stool, leaned her elbows on her mother’s knee,
saying bravely...

“Marmee, I want to ‘fess’.”

“I thought so. What is it, dear?”

“Shall I go away?” asked Jo discreetly.

“Of course not. Don’t I always tell you everything? I was ashamed to
speak of it before the younger children, but I want you to know all the
dreadful things I did at the Moffats’.”

“We are prepared,” said Mrs. March, smiling but looking a little
anxious.

“I told you they dressed me up, but I didn’t tell you that they
powdered and squeezed and frizzled, and made me look like a
fashion-plate. Laurie thought I wasn’t proper. I know he did, though he
didn’t say so, and one man called me ‘a doll’. I knew it was silly, but
they flattered me and said I was a beauty, and quantities of nonsense,
so I let them make a fool of me.”

“Is that all?” asked Jo, as Mrs. March looked silently at the downcast
face of her pretty daughter, and could not find it in her heart to
blame her little follies.

“No, I drank champagne and romped and tried to flirt, and was
altogether abominable,” said Meg self-reproachfully.

“There is something more, I think.” And Mrs. March smoothed the soft
cheek, which suddenly grew rosy as Meg answered slowly...

“Yes. It’s very silly, but I want to tell it, because I hate to have
people say and think such things about us and Laurie.”