Then she told the various bits of gossip she had heard at the Moffats’,
and as she spoke, Jo saw her mother fold her lips tightly, as if ill
pleased that such ideas should be put into Meg’s innocent mind.

“Well, if that isn’t the greatest rubbish I ever heard,” cried Jo
indignantly. “Why didn’t you pop out and tell them so on the spot?”

“I couldn’t, it was so embarrassing for me. I couldn’t help hearing at
first, and then I was so angry and ashamed, I didn’t remember that I
ought to go away.”

“Just wait till I see Annie Moffat, and I’ll show you how to settle
such ridiculous stuff. The idea of having ‘plans’ and being kind to
Laurie because he’s rich and may marry us by-and-by! Won’t he shout
when I tell him what those silly things say about us poor children?”
And Jo laughed, as if on second thoughts the thing struck her as a good
joke.

“If you tell Laurie, I’ll never forgive you! She mustn’t, must she,
Mother?” said Meg, looking distressed.

“No, never repeat that foolish gossip, and forget it as soon as you
can,” said Mrs. March gravely. “I was very unwise to let you go among
people of whom I know so little, kind, I dare say, but worldly,
ill-bred, and full of these vulgar ideas about young people. I am more
sorry than I can express for the mischief this visit may have done you,
Meg.”

“Don’t be sorry, I won’t let it hurt me. I’ll forget all the bad and
remember only the good, for I did enjoy a great deal, and thank you
very much for letting me go. I’ll not be sentimental or dissatisfied,
Mother. I know I’m a silly little girl, and I’ll stay with you till I’m
fit to take care of myself. But it is nice to be praised and admired,
and I can’t help saying I like it,” said Meg, looking half ashamed of
the confession.

“That is perfectly natural, and quite harmless, if the liking does not
become a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly things. Learn
to know and value the praise which is worth having, and to excite the
admiration of excellent people by being modest as well as pretty, Meg.”

Margaret sat thinking a moment, while Jo stood with her hands behind
her, looking both interested and a little perplexed, for it was a new
thing to see Meg blushing and talking about admiration, lovers, and
things of that sort. And Jo felt as if during that fortnight her sister
had grown up amazingly, and was drifting away from her into a world
where she could not follow.

“Mother, do you have ‘plans’, as Mrs. Moffat said?” asked Meg
bashfully.