Again we meet to celebrate
    With badge and solemn rite,
Our fifty-second anniversary,
    In Pickwick Hall, tonight.

We all are here in perfect health,
    None gone from our small band:
Again we see each well-known face,
    And press each friendly hand.

Our Pickwick, always at his post,
    With reverence we greet,
As, spectacles on nose, he reads
    Our well-filled weekly sheet.

Although he suffers from a cold,
    We joy to hear him speak,
For words of wisdom from him fall,
    In spite of croak or squeak.

Old six-foot Snodgrass looms on high,
    With elephantine grace,
And beams upon the company,
    With brown and jovial face.

Poetic fire lights up his eye,
    He struggles ’gainst his lot.
Behold ambition on his brow,
    And on his nose, a blot.

Next our peaceful Tupman comes,
    So rosy, plump, and sweet,
Who chokes with laughter at the puns,
    And tumbles off his seat.

Prim little Winkle too is here,
    With every hair in place,
A model of propriety,
    Though he hates to wash his face.

The year is gone, we still unite
    To joke and laugh and read,
And tread the path of literature
    That doth to glory lead.

Long may our paper prosper well,
    Our club unbroken be,
And coming years their blessings pour
    On the useful, gay ‘P. C.’.

A. SNODGRASS

THE MASKED MARRIAGE
(A Tale Of Venice)

Gondola after gondola swept up to the marble steps, and left its lovely
load to swell the brilliant throng that filled the stately halls of
Count Adelon. Knights and ladies, elves and pages, monks and flower
girls, all mingled gaily in the dance. Sweet voices and rich melody
filled the air, and so with mirth and music the masquerade went on.
“Has your Highness seen the Lady Viola tonight?” asked a gallant
troubadour of the fairy queen who floated down the hall upon his arm.

“Yes, is she not lovely, though so sad!  Her dress is well chosen, too,
for in a week she weds Count Antonio, whom she passionately hates.”

“By my faith, I envy him. Yonder he comes, arrayed like a bridegroom,
except the black mask. When that is off we shall see how he regards the
fair maid whose heart he cannot win, though her stern father bestows
her hand,” returned the troubadour.

“Tis whispered that she loves the young English artist who haunts her
steps, and is spurned by the old Count,” said the lady, as they joined
the dance. The revel was at its height when a priest appeared, and
withdrawing the young pair to an alcove, hung with purple velvet, he
motioned them to kneel. Instant silence fell on the gay throng, and not
a sound, but the dash of fountains or the rustle of orange groves
sleeping in the moonlight, broke the hush, as Count de Adelon spoke
thus: