“My lords and ladies, pardon the ruse by which I have gathered you here
to witness the marriage of my daughter. Father, we wait your services.”
All eyes turned toward the bridal party, and a murmur of amazement went
through the throng, for neither bride nor groom removed their masks.
Curiosity and wonder possessed all hearts, but respect restrained all
tongues till the holy rite was over. Then the eager spectators gathered
round the count, demanding an explanation.

“Gladly would I give it if I could, but I only know that it was the
whim of my timid Viola, and I yielded to it.  Now, my children, let the
play end. Unmask and receive my blessing.”

But neither bent the knee, for the young bridegroom replied in a tone
that startled all listeners as the mask fell, disclosing the noble face
of Ferdinand Devereux, the artist lover, and leaning on the breast
where now flashed the star of an English earl was the lovely Viola,
radiant with joy and beauty.

“My lord, you scornfully bade me claim your daughter when I could boast
as high a name and vast a fortune as the Count Antonio. I can do more,
for even your ambitious soul cannot refuse the Earl of Devereux and De
Vere, when he gives his ancient name and boundless wealth in return for
the beloved hand of this fair lady, now my wife.”

The count stood like one changed to stone, and turning to the
bewildered crowd, Ferdinand added, with a gay smile of triumph, “To
you, my gallant friends, I can only wish that your wooing may prosper
as mine has done, and that you may all win as fair a bride as I have by
this masked marriage.”

S. PICKWICK

Why is the P. C. like the Tower of Babel?
It is full of unruly members.

THE HISTORY OF A SQUASH

Once upon a time a farmer planted a little seed in his garden, and
after a while it sprouted and became a vine and bore many squashes. One
day in October, when they were ripe, he picked one and took it to
market. A grocerman bought and put it in his shop. That same morning, a
little girl in a brown hat and blue dress, with a round face and snub
nose, went and bought it for her mother. She lugged it home, cut it up,
and boiled it in the big pot, mashed some of it with salt and butter,
for dinner. And to the rest she added a pint of milk, two eggs, four
spoons of sugar, nutmeg, and some crackers, put it in a deep dish, and
baked it till it was brown and nice, and next day it was eaten by a
family named March.

T. TUPMAN