Her stealthy paws tread the very hall
    Where Snowball used to play,
But she only spits at the dogs our pet
    So gallantly drove away.

She is useful and mild, and does her best,
    But she is not fair to see,
And we cannot give her your place dear,
    Nor worship her as we worship thee.

A.S.

ADVERTISEMENTS

MISS ORANTHY BLUGGAGE, the accomplished strong-minded lecturer, will
deliver her famous lecture on “WOMAN AND HER POSITION” at Pickwick
Hall, next Saturday Evening, after the usual performances.

A WEEKLY MEETING will be held at Kitchen Place, to teach young ladies
how to cook. Hannah Brown will preside, and all are invited to attend.

THE DUSTPAN SOCIETY will meet on Wednesday next, and parade in the
upper story of the Club House. All members to appear in uniform and
shoulder their brooms at nine precisely.

MRS. BETH BOUNCER will open her new assortment of Doll’s Millinery next
week. The latest Paris fashions have arrived, and orders are
respectfully solicited.

A NEW PLAY will appear at the Barnville Theatre, in the course of a few
weeks, which will surpass anything ever seen on the American stage.
“THE GREEK SLAVE, or Constantine the Avenger,” is the name of this
thrilling drama!!!

HINTS

If S.P. didn’t use so much soap on his hands, he wouldn’t always be
late at breakfast. A.S. is requested not to whistle in the street. T.T.
please don’t forget Amy’s napkin. N.W. must not fret because his dress
has not nine tucks.

WEEKLY REPORT

Meg—Good.
Jo—Bad.
Beth—Very Good.
Amy—Middling.

As the President finished reading the paper (which I beg leave to
assure my readers is a bona fide copy of one written by bona fide girls
once upon a time), a round of applause followed, and then Mr. Snodgrass
rose to make a proposition.

“Mr. President and gentlemen,” he began, assuming a parliamentary
attitude and tone, “I wish to propose the admission of a new member—one
who highly deserves the honor, would be deeply grateful for it, and
would add immensely to the spirit of the club, the literary value of
the paper, and be no end jolly and nice. I propose Mr. Theodore
Laurence as an honorary member of the P. C. Come now, do have him.”

Jo’s sudden change of tone made the girls laugh, but all looked rather
anxious, and no one said a word as Snodgrass took his seat.

“We’ll put it to a vote,” said the President. “All in favor of this
motion please to manifest it by saying, ‘Aye’.”

A loud response from Snodgrass, followed, to everybody’s surprise, by a
timid one from Beth.

“Contrary-minded say, ‘No’.”

Meg and Amy were contrary-minded, and Mr. Winkle rose to say with great
elegance, “We don’t wish any boys, they only joke and bounce about.
This is a ladies’ club, and we wish to be private and proper.”

“I’m afraid he’ll laugh at our paper, and make fun of us afterward,”
observed Pickwick, pulling the little curl on her forehead, as she
always did when doubtful.