Up rose Snodgrass, very much in earnest. “Sir, I give you my word as a
gentleman, Laurie won’t do anything of the sort. He likes to write, and
he’ll give a tone to our contributions and keep us from being
sentimental, don’t you see? We can do so little for him, and he does so
much for us, I think the least we can do is to offer him a place here,
and make him welcome if he comes.”

This artful allusion to benefits conferred brought Tupman to his feet,
looking as if he had quite made up his mind.

“Yes; we ought to do it, even if we are afraid. I say he may come, and
his grandpa, too, if he likes.”

This spirited burst from Beth electrified the club, and Jo left her
seat to shake hands approvingly. “Now then, vote again. Everybody
remember it’s our Laurie, and say, ‘Aye!’” cried Snodgrass excitedly.

“Aye! Aye! Aye!” replied three voices at once.

“Good! Bless you! Now, as there’s nothing like ‘taking time by the
fetlock’, as Winkle characteristically observes, allow me to present
the new member.” And, to the dismay of the rest of the club, Jo threw
open the door of the closet, and displayed Laurie sitting on a rag bag,
flushed and twinkling with suppressed laughter.

“You rogue! You traitor! Jo, how could you?” cried the three girls, as
Snodgrass led her friend triumphantly forth, and producing both a chair
and a badge, installed him in a jiffy.

“The coolness of you two rascals is amazing,” began Mr. Pickwick,
trying to get up an awful frown and only succeeding in producing an
amiable smile. But the new member was equal to the occasion, and
rising, with a grateful salutation to the Chair, said in the most
engaging manner, “Mr. President and ladies—I beg pardon,
gentlemen—allow me to introduce myself as Sam Weller, the very humble
servant of the club.”

“Good! Good!” cried Jo, pounding with the handle of the old warming pan
on which she leaned.

“My faithful friend and noble patron,” continued Laurie with a wave of
the hand, “who has so flatteringly presented me, is not to be blamed
for the base stratagem of tonight. I planned it, and she only gave in
after lots of teasing.”

“Come now, don’t lay it all on yourself. You know I proposed the
cupboard,” broke in Snodgrass, who was enjoying the joke amazingly.

“Never mind what she says. I’m the wretch that did it, sir,” said the
new member, with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick. “But on my honor, I
never will do so again, and henceforth devote myself to the interest of
this immortal club.”

“Hear! Hear!” cried Jo, clashing the lid of the warming pan like a
cymbal.

“Go on, go on!” added Winkle and Tupman, while the President bowed
benignly.