“I merely wish to say, that as a slight token of my gratitude for the
honor done me, and as a means of promoting friendly relations between
adjoining nations, I have set up a post office in the hedge in the
lower corner of the garden, a fine, spacious building with padlocks on
the doors and every convenience for the mails, also the females, if I
may be allowed the expression. It’s the old martin house, but I’ve
stopped up the door and made the roof open, so it will hold all sorts
of things, and save our valuable time. Letters, manuscripts, books, and
bundles can be passed in there, and as each nation has a key, it will
be uncommonly nice, I fancy. Allow me to present the club key, and with
many thanks for your favor, take my seat.”

Great applause as Mr. Weller deposited a little key on the table and
subsided, the warming pan clashed and waved wildly, and it was some
time before order could be restored. A long discussion followed, and
everyone came out surprising, for everyone did her best. So it was an
unusually lively meeting, and did not adjourn till a late hour, when it
broke up with three shrill cheers for the new member.

No one ever regretted the admittance of Sam Weller, for a more devoted,
well-behaved, and jovial member no club could have. He certainly did
add ‘spirit’ to the meetings, and ‘a tone’ to the paper, for his
orations convulsed his hearers and his contributions were excellent,
being patriotic, classical, comical, or dramatic, but never
sentimental. Jo regarded them as worthy of Bacon, Milton, or
Shakespeare, and remodeled her own works with good effect, she thought.

The P. O. was a capital little institution, and flourished wonderfully,
for nearly as many queer things passed through it as through the real
post office. Tragedies and cravats, poetry and pickles, garden seeds
and long letters, music and gingerbread, rubbers, invitations,
scoldings, and puppies. The old gentleman liked the fun, and amused
himself by sending odd bundles, mysterious messages, and funny
telegrams, and his gardener, who was smitten with Hannah’s charms,
actually sent a love letter to Jo’s care. How they laughed when the
secret came out, never dreaming how many love letters that little post
office would hold in the years to come.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
EXPERIMENTS

“The first of June! The Kings are off to the seashore tomorrow, and I’m
free. Three months’ vacation—how I shall enjoy it!” exclaimed Meg,
coming home one warm day to find Jo laid upon the sofa in an unusual
state of exhaustion, while Beth took off her dusty boots, and Amy made
lemonade for the refreshment of the whole party.