No one would own that they were tired of the experiment, but by Friday
night each acknowledged to herself that she was glad the week was
nearly done. Hoping to impress the lesson more deeply, Mrs. March, who
had a good deal of humor, resolved to finish off the trial in an
appropriate manner, so she gave Hannah a holiday and let the girls
enjoy the full effect of the play system.

When they got up on Saturday morning, there was no fire in the kitchen,
no breakfast in the dining room, and no mother anywhere to be seen.

“Mercy on us! What has happened?” cried Jo, staring about her in
dismay.

Meg ran upstairs and soon came back again, looking relieved but rather
bewildered, and a little ashamed.

“Mother isn’t sick, only very tired, and she says she is going to stay
quietly in her room all day and let us do the best we can. It’s a very
queer thing for her to do, she doesn’t act a bit like herself. But she
says it has been a hard week for her, so we mustn’t grumble but take
care of ourselves.”

“That’s easy enough, and I like the idea, I’m aching for something to
do, that is, some new amusement, you know,” added Jo quickly.

In fact it was an immense relief to them all to have a little work, and
they took hold with a will, but soon realized the truth of Hannah’s
saying, “Housekeeping ain’t no joke.” There was plenty of food in the
larder, and while Beth and Amy set the table, Meg and Jo got breakfast,
wondering as they did why servants ever talked about hard work.

“I shall take some up to Mother, though she said we were not to think
of her, for she’d take care of herself,” said Meg, who presided and
felt quite matronly behind the teapot.

So a tray was fitted out before anyone began, and taken up with the
cook’s compliments. The boiled tea was very bitter, the omelet
scorched, and the biscuits speckled with saleratus, but Mrs. March
received her repast with thanks and laughed heartily over it after Jo
was gone.

“Poor little souls, they will have a hard time, I’m afraid, but they
won’t suffer, and it will do them good,” she said, producing the more
palatable viands with which she had provided herself, and disposing of
the bad breakfast, so that their feelings might not be hurt, a motherly
little deception for which they were grateful.

Many were the complaints below, and great the chagrin of the head cook
at her failures. “Never mind, I’ll get the dinner and be servant, you
be mistress, keep your hands nice, see company, and give orders,” said
Jo, who knew still less than Meg about culinary affairs.