Language cannot describe the anxieties, experiences, and exertions
which Jo underwent that morning, and the dinner she served up became a
standing joke. Fearing to ask any more advice, she did her best alone,
and discovered that something more than energy and good will is
necessary to make a cook. She boiled the asparagus for an hour and was
grieved to find the heads cooked off and the stalks harder than ever.
The bread burned black; for the salad dressing so aggravated her that
she could not make it fit to eat. The lobster was a scarlet mystery to
her, but she hammered and poked till it was unshelled and its meager
proportions concealed in a grove of lettuce leaves. The potatoes had to
be hurried, not to keep the asparagus waiting, and were not done at the
last. The blanc mange was lumpy, and the strawberries not as ripe as
they looked, having been skilfully ‘deaconed’.

“Well, they can eat beef and bread and butter, if they are hungry, only
it’s mortifying to have to spend your whole morning for nothing,”
thought Jo, as she rang the bell half an hour later than usual, and
stood, hot, tired, and dispirited, surveying the feast spread before
Laurie, accustomed to all sorts of elegance, and Miss Crocker, whose
tattling tongue would report them far and wide.

Poor Jo would gladly have gone under the table, as one thing after
another was tasted and left, while Amy giggled, Meg looked distressed,
Miss Crocker pursed her lips, and Laurie talked and laughed with all
his might to give a cheerful tone to the festive scene. Jo’s one strong
point was the fruit, for she had sugared it well, and had a pitcher of
rich cream to eat with it. Her hot cheeks cooled a trifle, and she drew
a long breath as the pretty glass plates went round, and everyone
looked graciously at the little rosy islands floating in a sea of
cream. Miss Crocker tasted first, made a wry face, and drank some water
hastily. Jo, who refused, thinking there might not be enough, for they
dwindled sadly after the picking over, glanced at Laurie, but he was
eating away manfully, though there was a slight pucker about his mouth
and he kept his eye fixed on his plate. Amy, who was fond of delicate
fare, took a heaping spoonful, choked, hid her face in her napkin, and
left the table precipitately.

“Oh, what is it?” exclaimed Jo, trembling.

“Salt instead of sugar, and the cream is sour,” replied Meg with a
tragic gesture.