Jo uttered a groan and fell back in her chair, remembering that she had
given a last hasty powdering to the berries out of one of the two boxes
on the kitchen table, and had neglected to put the milk in the
refrigerator. She turned scarlet and was on the verge of crying, when
she met Laurie’s eyes, which would look merry in spite of his heroic
efforts. The comical side of the affair suddenly struck her, and she
laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks. So did everyone else, even
‘Croaker’ as the girls called the old lady, and the unfortunate dinner
ended gaily, with bread and butter, olives and fun.

“I haven’t strength of mind enough to clear up now, so we will sober
ourselves with a funeral,” said Jo, as they rose, and Miss Crocker made
ready to go, being eager to tell the new story at another friend’s
dinner table.

They did sober themselves for Beth’s sake. Laurie dug a grave under the
ferns in the grove, little Pip was laid in, with many tears by his
tender-hearted mistress, and covered with moss, while a wreath of
violets and chickweed was hung on the stone which bore his epitaph,
composed by Jo while she struggled with the dinner.

Here lies Pip March,
Who died the 7th of June;
Loved and lamented sore,
And not forgotten soon.

At the conclusion of the ceremonies, Beth retired to her room, overcome
with emotion and lobster, but there was no place of repose, for the
beds were not made, and she found her grief much assuaged by beating up
the pillows and putting things in order. Meg helped Jo clear away the
remains of the feast, which took half the afternoon and left them so
tired that they agreed to be contented with tea and toast for supper.

Laurie took Amy to drive, which was a deed of charity, for the sour
cream seemed to have had a bad effect upon her temper. Mrs. March came
home to find the three older girls hard at work in the middle of the
afternoon, and a glance at the closet gave her an idea of the success
of one part of the experiment.

Before the housewives could rest, several people called, and there was
a scramble to get ready to see them. Then tea must be got, errands
done, and one or two necessary bits of sewing neglected until the last
minute. As twilight fell, dewy and still, one by one they gathered on
the porch where the June roses were budding beautifully, and each
groaned or sighed as she sat down, as if tired or troubled.

“What a dreadful day this has been!” began Jo, usually the first to
speak.

“It has seemed shorter than usual, but so uncomfortable,” said Meg.

“Not a bit like home,” added Amy.

“It can’t seem so without Marmee and little Pip,” sighed Beth, glancing
with full eyes at the empty cage above her head.