“Here’s Mother, dear, and you shall have another bird tomorrow, if you
want it.”

As she spoke, Mrs. March came and took her place among them, looking as
if her holiday had not been much pleasanter than theirs.

“Are you satisfied with your experiment, girls, or do you want another
week of it?” she asked, as Beth nestled up to her and the rest turned
toward her with brightening faces, as flowers turn toward the sun.

“I don’t!” cried Jo decidedly.

“Nor I,” echoed the others.

“You think then, that it is better to have a few duties and live a
little for others, do you?”

“Lounging and larking doesn’t pay,” observed Jo, shaking her head. “I’m
tired of it and mean to go to work at something right off.”

“Suppose you learn plain cooking. That’s a useful accomplishment, which
no woman should be without,” said Mrs. March, laughing inaudibly at the
recollection of Jo’s dinner party, for she had met Miss Crocker and
heard her account of it.

“Mother, did you go away and let everything be, just to see how we’d
get on?” cried Meg, who had had suspicions all day.

“Yes, I wanted you to see how the comfort of all depends on each doing
her share faithfully. While Hannah and I did your work, you got on
pretty well, though I don’t think you were very happy or amiable. So I
thought, as a little lesson, I would show you what happens when
everyone thinks only of herself. Don’t you feel that it is pleasanter
to help one another, to have daily duties which make leisure sweet when
it comes, and to bear and forbear, that home may be comfortable and
lovely to us all?”

“We do, Mother, we do!” cried the girls.

“Then let me advise you to take up your little burdens again, for
though they seem heavy sometimes, they are good for us, and lighten as
we learn to carry them. Work is wholesome, and there is plenty for
everyone. It keeps us from ennui and mischief, is good for health and
spirits, and gives us a sense of power and independence better than
money or fashion.”

“We’ll work like bees, and love it too, see if we don’t,” said Jo.
“I’ll learn plain cooking for my holiday task, and the next dinner
party I have shall be a success.”

“I’ll make the set of shirts for father, instead of letting you do it,
Marmee. I can and I will, though I’m not fond of sewing. That will be
better than fussing over my own things, which are plenty nice enough as
they are.” said Meg.

“I’ll do my lessons every day, and not spend so much time with my music
and dolls. I am a stupid thing, and ought to be studying, not playing,”
was Beth’s resolution, while Amy followed their example by heroically
declaring, “I shall learn to make buttonholes, and attend to my parts
of speech.”