I write a little word to tell you with how much satisfaction I watch
your efforts to control your temper. You say nothing about your trials,
failures, or successes, and think, perhaps, that no one sees them but
the Friend whose help you daily ask, if I may trust the well-worn cover
of your guidebook. I, too, have seen them all, and heartily believe in
the sincerity of your resolution, since it begins to bear fruit. Go on,
dear, patiently and bravely, and always believe that no one sympathizes
more tenderly with you than your loving...

Mother

“That does me good! That’s worth millions of money and pecks of praise.
Oh, Marmee, I do try! I will keep on trying, and not get tired, since I
have you to help me.”

Laying her head on her arms, Jo wet her little romance with a few happy
tears, for she had thought that no one saw and appreciated her efforts
to be good, and this assurance was doubly precious, doubly encouraging,
because unexpected and from the person whose commendation she most
valued. Feeling stronger than ever to meet and subdue her Apollyon, she
pinned the note inside her frock, as a shield and a reminder, lest she
be taken unaware, and proceeded to open her other letter, quite ready
for either good or bad news. In a big, dashing hand, Laurie wrote...

Dear Jo, What ho!

Some English girls and boys are coming to see me tomorrow and I want to
have a jolly time. If it’s fine, I’m going to pitch my tent in
Longmeadow, and row up the whole crew to lunch and croquet—have a fire,
make messes, gypsy fashion, and all sorts of larks. They are nice
people, and like such things. Brooke will go to keep us boys steady,
and Kate Vaughn will play propriety for the girls. I want you all to
come, can’t let Beth off at any price, and nobody shall worry her.
Don’t bother about rations, I’ll see to that and everything else, only
do come, there’s a good fellow!

In a tearing hurry, Yours ever, Laurie.

“Here’s richness!” cried Jo, flying in to tell the news to Meg.

“Of course we can go, Mother? It will be such a help to Laurie, for I
can row, and Meg see to the lunch, and the children be useful in some
way.”

“I hope the Vaughns are not fine grown-up people. Do you know anything
about them, Jo?” asked Meg.

“Only that there are four of them. Kate is older than you, Fred and
Frank (twins) about my age, and a little girl (Grace), who is nine or
ten. Laurie knew them abroad, and liked the boys. I fancied, from the
way he primmed up his mouth in speaking of her, that he didn’t admire
Kate much.”

“I’m so glad my French print is clean, it’s just the thing and so
becoming!” observed Meg complacently. “Have you anything decent, Jo?”