“So it is. How queer that he should come. I thought he was at the
mountains. There is Sallie. I’m glad she got back in time. Am I all
right, Jo?” cried Meg in a flutter.

“A regular daisy. Hold up your dress and put your hat on straight, it
looks sentimental tipped that way and will fly off at the first puff.
Now then, come on!”

“Oh, Jo, you are not going to wear that awful hat? It’s too absurd! You
shall not make a guy of yourself,” remonstrated Meg, as Jo tied down
with a red ribbon the broad-brimmed, old-fashioned leghorn Laurie had
sent for a joke.

“I just will, though, for it’s capital, so shady, light, and big. It
will make fun, and I don’t mind being a guy if I’m comfortable.” With
that Jo marched straight away and the rest followed, a bright little
band of sisters, all looking their best in summer suits, with happy
faces under the jaunty hatbrims.

Laurie ran to meet and present them to his friends in the most cordial
manner. The lawn was the reception room, and for several minutes a
lively scene was enacted there. Meg was grateful to see that Miss Kate,
though twenty, was dressed with a simplicity which American girls would
do well to imitate, and who was much flattered by Mr. Ned’s assurances
that he came especially to see her. Jo understood why Laurie ‘primmed
up his mouth’ when speaking of Kate, for that young lady had a
standoff-don’t-touch-me air, which contrasted strongly with the free
and easy demeanor of the other girls. Beth took an observation of the
new boys and decided that the lame one was not ‘dreadful’, but gentle
and feeble, and she would be kind to him on that account. Amy found
Grace a well-mannered, merry, little person, and after staring dumbly
at one another for a few minutes, they suddenly became very good
friends.

Tents, lunch, and croquet utensils having been sent on beforehand, the
party was soon embarked, and the two boats pushed off together, leaving
Mr. Laurence waving his hat on the shore. Laurie and Jo rowed one boat,
Mr. Brooke and Ned the other, while Fred Vaughn, the riotous twin, did
his best to upset both by paddling about in a wherry like a disturbed
water bug. Jo’s funny hat deserved a vote of thanks, for it was of
general utility. It broke the ice in the beginning by producing a
laugh, it created quite a refreshing breeze, flapping to and fro as she
rowed, and would make an excellent umbrella for the whole party, if a
shower came up, she said. Miss Kate decided that she was ‘odd’, but
rather clever, and smiled upon her from afar.