Meg, in the other boat, was delightfully situated, face to face with
the rowers, who both admired the prospect and feathered their oars with
uncommon ‘skill and dexterity’. Mr. Brooke was a grave, silent young
man, with handsome brown eyes and a pleasant voice. Meg liked his quiet
manners and considered him a walking encyclopedia of useful knowledge.
He never talked to her much, but he looked at her a good deal, and she
felt sure that he did not regard her with aversion. Ned, being in
college, of course put on all the airs which freshmen think it their
bounden duty to assume. He was not very wise, but very good-natured,
and altogether an excellent person to carry on a picnic. Sallie
Gardiner was absorbed in keeping her white pique dress clean and

It was not far to Longmeadow, but the tent was pitched and the wickets
down by the time they arrived. A pleasant green field, with three
wide-spreading oaks in the middle and a smooth strip of turf for
croquet.

“Welcome to Camp Laurence!” said the young host, as they landed with
exclamations of delight.

“Brooke is commander in chief, I am commissary general, the other
fellows are staff officers, and you, ladies, are company. The tent is
for your especial benefit and that oak is your drawing room, this is
the messroom and the third is the camp kitchen. Now, let’s have a game
before it gets hot, and then we’ll see about dinner.”

Frank, Beth, Amy, and Grace sat down to watch the game played by the
other eight. Mr. Brooke chose Meg, Kate, and Fred. Laurie took Sallie,
Jo, and Ned. The English played well, but the Americans played better,
and contested every inch of the ground as strongly as if the spirit of
’76 inspired them. Jo and Fred had several skirmishes and once narrowly
escaped high words. Jo was through the last wicket and had missed the
stroke, which failure ruffled her a good deal. Fred was close behind
her and his turn came before hers. He gave a stroke, his ball hit the
wicket, and stopped an inch on the wrong side. No one was very near,
and running up to examine, he gave it a sly nudge with his toe, which
put it just an inch on the right side.

“I’m through! Now, Miss Jo, I’ll settle you, and get in first,” cried
the young gentleman, swinging his mallet for another blow.

“You pushed it. I saw you. It’s my turn now,” said Jo sharply.

“Upon my word, I didn’t move it. It rolled a bit, perhaps, but that is
allowed. So, stand off please, and let me have a go at the stake.”

“We don’t cheat in America, but you can, if you choose,” said Jo
angrily.

“Yankees are a deal the most tricky, everybody knows. There you go!”
returned Fred, croqueting her ball far away.