The commander in chief and his aides soon spread the tablecloth with an
inviting array of eatables and drinkables, prettily decorated with
green leaves. Jo announced that the coffee was ready, and everyone
settled themselves to a hearty meal, for youth is seldom dyspeptic, and
exercise develops wholesome appetites. A very merry lunch it was, for
everything seemed fresh and funny, and frequent peals of laughter
startled a venerable horse who fed near by. There was a pleasing
inequality in the table, which produced many mishaps to cups and
plates, acorns dropped in the milk, little black ants partook of the
refreshments without being invited, and fuzzy caterpillars swung down
from the tree to see what was going on. Three white-headed children
peeped over the fence, and an objectionable dog barked at them from the
other side of the river with all his might and main.

“There’s salt here,” said Laurie, as he handed Jo a saucer of berries.

“Thank you, I prefer spiders,” she replied, fishing up two unwary
little ones who had gone to a creamy death. “How dare you remind me of
that horrid dinner party, when yours is so nice in every way?” added
Jo, as they both laughed and ate out of one plate, the china having run
short.

“I had an uncommonly good time that day, and haven’t got over it yet.
This is no credit to me, you know, I don’t do anything. It’s you and
Meg and Brooke who make it all go, and I’m no end obliged to you. What
shall we do when we can’t eat anymore?” asked Laurie, feeling that his
trump card had been played when lunch was over.

“Have games till it’s cooler. I brought Authors, and I dare say Miss
Kate knows something new and nice. Go and ask her. She’s company, and
you ought to stay with her more.”

“Aren’t you company too? I thought she’d suit Brooke, but he keeps
talking to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous
glass of hers. I’m going, so you needn’t try to preach propriety, for
you can’t do it, Jo.”

Miss Kate did know several new games, and as the girls would not, and
the boys could not, eat any more, they all adjourned to the drawing
room to play Rig-marole.

“One person begins a story, any nonsense you like, and tells as long as
he pleases, only taking care to stop short at some exciting point, when
the next takes it up and does the same. It’s very funny when well done,
and makes a perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over.
Please start it, Mr. Brooke,” said Kate, with a commanding air, which
surprised Meg, who treated the tutor with as much respect as any other
gentleman.

Lying on the grass at the feet of the two young ladies, Mr. Brooke
obediently began the story, with the handsome brown eyes steadily fixed
upon the sunshiny river.