“Once on a time, a knight went out into the world to seek his fortune,
for he had nothing but his sword and his shield. He traveled a long
while, nearly eight-and-twenty years, and had a hard time of it, till
he came to the palace of a good old king, who had offered a reward to
anyone who could tame and train a fine but unbroken colt, of which he
was very fond. The knight agreed to try, and got on slowly but surely,
for the colt was a gallant fellow, and soon learned to love his new
master, though he was freakish and wild. Every day, when he gave his
lessons to this pet of the king’s, the knight rode him through the
city, and as he rode, he looked everywhere for a certain beautiful
face, which he had seen many times in his dreams, but never found. One
day, as he went prancing down a quiet street, he saw at the window of a
ruinous castle the lovely face. He was delighted, inquired who lived in
this old castle, and was told that several captive princesses were kept
there by a spell, and spun all day to lay up money to buy their
liberty. The knight wished intensely that he could free them, but he
was poor and could only go by each day, watching for the sweet face and
longing to see it out in the sunshine. At last he resolved to get into
the castle and ask how he could help them. He went and knocked. The
great door flew open, and he beheld...”

“A ravishingly lovely lady, who exclaimed, with a cry of rapture, ‘At
last! At last!’” continued Kate, who had read French novels, and
admired the style. “’Tis she!’ cried Count Gustave, and fell at her
feet in an ecstasy of joy. ‘Oh, rise!’ she said, extending a hand of
marble fairness. ‘Never! Till you tell me how I may rescue you,’ swore
the knight, still kneeling. ‘Alas, my cruel fate condemns me to remain
here till my tyrant is destroyed.’ ‘Where is the villain?’ ‘In the
mauve salon. Go, brave heart, and save me from despair.’ ‘I obey, and
return victorious or dead!’ With these thrilling words he rushed away,
and flinging open the door of the mauve salon, was about to enter, when
he received...”