“A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon, which an old fellow in a
black gown fired at him,” said Ned. “Instantly, Sir What’s-his-name
recovered himself, pitched the tyrant out of the window, and turned to
join the lady, victorious, but with a bump on his brow, found the door
locked, tore up the curtains, made a rope ladder, got halfway down when
the ladder broke, and he went headfirst into the moat, sixty feet
below. Could swim like a duck, paddled round the castle till he came to
a little door guarded by two stout fellows, knocked their heads
together till they cracked like a couple of nuts, then, by a trifling
exertion of his prodigious strength, he smashed in the door, went up a
pair of stone steps covered with dust a foot thick, toads as big as
your fist, and spiders that would frighten you into hysterics, Miss
March. At the top of these steps he came plump upon a sight that took
his breath away and chilled his blood...”

“A tall figure, all in white with a veil over its face and a lamp in
its wasted hand,” went on Meg. “It beckoned, gliding noiselessly before
him down a corridor as dark and cold as any tomb. Shadowy effigies in
armor stood on either side, a dead silence reigned, the lamp burned
blue, and the ghostly figure ever and anon turned its face toward him,
showing the glitter of awful eyes through its white veil. They reached
a curtained door, behind which sounded lovely music. He sprang forward
to enter, but the specter plucked him back, and waved threateningly
before him a...”

“Snuffbox,” said Jo, in a sepulchral tone, which convulsed the
audience. “‘Thankee,’ said the knight politely, as he took a pinch and
sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off. ‘Ha! Ha!’
laughed the ghost, and having peeped through the keyhole at the
princesses spinning away for dear life, the evil spirit picked up her
victim and put him in a large tin box, where there were eleven other
knights packed together without their heads, like sardines, who all
rose and began to...”

“Dance a hornpipe,” cut in Fred, as Jo paused for breath, “and, as they
danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in full sail.
‘Up with the jib, reef the tops’l halliards, helm hard alee, and man
the guns!’ roared the captain, as a Portuguese pirate hove in sight,
with a flag black as ink flying from her foremast. ‘Go in and win, my
hearties!’ says the captain, and a tremendous fight began. Of course
the British beat—they always do.”

“No, they don’t!” cried Jo, aside.