“‘Cabbages!’” continued Laurie promptly. “‘Just the thing,’ said the
girl, and ran to get twelve fine ones from her garden. She put them on,
the knights revived at once, thanked her, and went on their way
rejoicing, never knowing the difference, for there were so many other
heads like them in the world that no one thought anything of it. The
knight in whom I’m interested went back to find the pretty face, and
learned that the princesses had spun themselves free and all gone and
married, but one. He was in a great state of mind at that, and mounting
the colt, who stood by him through thick and thin, rushed to the castle
to see which was left. Peeping over the hedge, he saw the queen of his
affections picking flowers in her garden. ‘Will you give me a rose?’
said he. ‘You must come and get it. I can’t come to you, it isn’t
proper,’ said she, as sweet as honey. He tried to climb over the hedge,
but it seemed to grow higher and higher. Then he tried to push through,
but it grew thicker and thicker, and he was in despair. So he patiently
broke twig after twig till he had made a little hole through which he
peeped, saying imploringly, ‘Let me in! Let me in!’ But the pretty
princess did not seem to understand, for she picked her roses quietly,
and left him to fight his way in. Whether he did or not, Frank will
tell you.”

“I can’t. I’m not playing, I never do,” said Frank, dismayed at the
sentimental predicament out of which he was to rescue the absurd
couple. Beth had disappeared behind Jo, and Grace was asleep.

“So the poor knight is to be left sticking in the hedge, is he?” asked
Mr. Brooke, still watching the river, and playing with the wild rose in
his buttonhole.

“I guess the princess gave him a posy, and opened the gate after a
while,” said Laurie, smiling to himself, as he threw acorns at his
tutor.

“What a piece of nonsense we have made! With practice we might do
something quite clever. Do you know Truth?”

“I hope so,” said Meg soberly.

“The game, I mean?”

“What is it?” said Fred.

“Why, you pile up your hands, choose a number, and draw out in turn,
and the person who draws at the number has to answer truly any question
put by the rest. It’s great fun.”

“Let’s try it,” said Jo, who liked new experiments.

Miss Kate and Mr. Brooke, Meg, and Ned declined, but Fred, Sallie, Jo,
and Laurie piled and drew, and the lot fell to Laurie.

“Who are your heroes?” asked Jo.

“Grandfather and Napoleon.”

“Which lady here do you think prettiest?” said Sallie.

“Margaret.”

“Which do you like best?” from Fred.

“Jo, of course.”

“What silly questions you ask!” And Jo gave a disdainful shrug as the
rest laughed at Laurie’s matter-of-fact tone.

“Try again. Truth isn’t a bad game,” said Fred.