“It’s a very good one for you,” retorted Jo in a low voice. Her turn
came next.

“What is your greatest fault?” asked Fred, by way of testing in her the
virtue he lacked himself.

“A quick temper.”

“What do you most wish for?” said Laurie.

“A pair of boot lacings,” returned Jo, guessing and defeating his
purpose.

“Not a true answer. You must say what you really do want most.”

“Genius. Don’t you wish you could give it to me, Laurie?” And she slyly
smiled in his disappointed face.

“What virtues do you most admire in a man?” asked Sallie.

“Courage and honesty.”

“Now my turn,” said Fred, as his hand came last.

“Let’s give it to him,” whispered Laurie to Jo, who nodded and asked at
once...

“Didn’t you cheat at croquet?”

“Well, yes, a little bit.”

“Good! Didn’t you take your story out of _The Sea Lion?_” said Laurie.

“Rather.”

“Don’t you think the English nation perfect in every respect?” asked
Sallie.

“I should be ashamed of myself if I didn’t.”

“He’s a true John Bull. Now, Miss Sallie, you shall have a chance
without waiting to draw. I’ll harrrow up your feelings first by asking
if you don’t think you are something of a flirt,” said Laurie, as Jo
nodded to Fred as a sign that peace was declared.

“You impertinent boy! Of course I’m not,” exclaimed Sallie, with an air
that proved the contrary.

“What do you hate most?” asked Fred.

“Spiders and rice pudding.”

“What do you like best?” asked Jo.

“Dancing and French gloves.”

“Well, I think Truth is a very silly play. Let’s have a sensible game
of Authors to refresh our minds,” proposed Jo.

Ned, Frank, and the little girls joined in this, and while it went on,
the three elders sat apart, talking. Miss Kate took out her sketch
again, and Margaret watched her, while Mr. Brooke lay on the grass with
a book, which he did not read.

“How beautifully you do it! I wish I could draw,” said Meg, with
mingled admiration and regret in her voice.

“Why don’t you learn? I should think you had taste and talent for it,”
replied Miss Kate graciously.

“I haven’t time.”

“Your mamma prefers other accomplishments, I fancy. So did mine, but I
proved to her that I had talent by taking a few lessons privately, and
then she was quite willing I should go on. Can’t you do the same with
your governess?”

“I have none.”

“I forgot young ladies in America go to school more than with us. Very
fine schools they are, too, Papa says. You go to a private one, I
suppose?”

“I don’t go at all. I am a governess myself.”

“Oh, indeed!” said Miss Kate, but she might as well have said, “Dear
me, how dreadful!” for her tone implied it, and something in her face
made Meg color, and wish she had not been so frank.