Mr. Brooke looked up and said quickly, “Young ladies in America love
independence as much as their ancestors did, and are admired and
respected for supporting themselves.”

“Oh, yes, of course it’s very nice and proper in them to do so. We have
many most respectable and worthy young women who do the same and are
employed by the nobility, because, being the daughters of gentlemen,
they are both well bred and accomplished, you know,” said Miss Kate in
a patronizing tone that hurt Meg’s pride, and made her work seem not
only more distasteful, but degrading.

“Did the German song suit, Miss March?” inquired Mr. Brooke, breaking
an awkward pause.

“Oh, yes! It was very sweet, and I’m much obliged to whoever translated
it for me.” And Meg’s downcast face brightened as she spoke.

“Don’t you read German?” asked Miss Kate with a look of surprise.

“Not very well. My father, who taught me, is away, and I don’t get on
very fast alone, for I’ve no one to correct my pronunciation.”

“Try a little now. Here is Schiller’s Mary Stuart and a tutor who loves
to teach.” And Mr. Brooke laid his book on her lap with an inviting
smile.

“It’s so hard I’m afraid to try,” said Meg, grateful, but bashful in
the presence of the accomplished young lady beside her.

“I’ll read a bit to encourage you.” And Miss Kate read one of the most
beautiful passages in a perfectly correct but perfectly expressionless
manner.

Mr. Brooke made no comment as she returned the book to Meg, who said
innocently, “I thought it was poetry.”

“Some of it is. Try this passage.”

There was a queer smile about Mr. Brooke’s mouth as he opened at poor
Mary’s lament.

Meg obediently following the long grass-blade which her new tutor used
to point with, read slowly and timidly, unconsciously making poetry of
the hard words by the soft intonation of her musical voice. Down the
page went the green guide, and presently, forgetting her listener in
the beauty of the sad scene, Meg read as if alone, giving a little
touch of tragedy to the words of the unhappy queen. If she had seen the
brown eyes then, she would have stopped short, but she never looked up,
and the lesson was not spoiled for her.

“Very well indeed!” said Mr. Brooke, as she paused, quite ignoring her
many mistakes, and looking as if he did indeed love to teach.

Miss Kate put up her glass, and, having taken a survey of the little
tableau before her, shut her sketch book, saying with condescension,
“You’ve a nice accent and in time will be a clever reader. I advise you
to learn, for German is a valuable accomplishment to teachers. I must
look after Grace, she is romping.” And Miss Kate strolled away, adding
to herself with a shrug, “I didn’t come to chaperone a governess,
though she is young and pretty. What odd people these Yankees are. I’m
afraid Laurie will be quite spoiled among them.”