“I forgot that English people rather turn up their noses at governesses
and don’t treat them as we do,” said Meg, looking after the retreating
figure with an annoyed expression.

“Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there, as I know to my
sorrow. There’s no place like America for us workers, Miss Margaret.”
And Mr. Brooke looked so contented and cheerful that Meg was ashamed to
lament her hard lot.

“I’m glad I live in it then. I don’t like my work, but I get a good
deal of satisfaction out of it after all, so I won’t complain. I only
wished I liked teaching as you do.”

“I think you would if you had Laurie for a pupil. I shall be very sorry
to lose him next year,” said Mr. Brooke, busily punching holes in the
turf.

“Going to college, I suppose?” Meg’s lips asked the question, but her
eyes added, “And what becomes of you?”

“Yes, it’s high time he went, for he is ready, and as soon as he is
off, I shall turn soldier. I am needed.”

“I am glad of that!” exclaimed Meg. “I should think every young man
would want to go, though it is hard for the mothers and sisters who
stay at home,” she added sorrowfully.

“I have neither, and very few friends to care whether I live or die,”
said Mr. Brooke rather bitterly as he absently put the dead rose in the
hole he had made and covered it up, like a little grave.

“Laurie and his grandfather would care a great deal, and we should all
be very sorry to have any harm happen to you,” said Meg heartily.

“Thank you, that sounds pleasant,” began Mr. Brooke, looking cheerful
again, but before he could finish his speech, Ned, mounted on the old
horse, came lumbering up to display his equestrian skill before the
young ladies, and there was no more quiet that day.

“Don’t you love to ride?” asked Grace of Amy, as they stood resting
after a race round the field with the others, led by Ned.

“I dote upon it. My sister, Meg, used to ride when Papa was rich, but
we don’t keep any horses now, except Ellen Tree,” added Amy, laughing.

“Tell me about Ellen Tree. Is it a donkey?” asked Grace curiously.

“Why, you see, Jo is crazy about horses and so am I, but we’ve only got
an old sidesaddle and no horse. Out in our garden is an apple tree that
has a nice low branch, so Jo put the saddle on it, fixed some reins on
the part that turns up, and we bounce away on Ellen Tree whenever we
like.”

“How funny!” laughed Grace. “I have a pony at home, and ride nearly
every day in the park with Fred and Kate. It’s very nice, for my
friends go too, and the Row is full of ladies and gentlemen.”