“Wouldn’t I though? I’d have a stable full of Arabian steeds, rooms
piled high with books, and I’d write out of a magic inkstand, so that
my works should be as famous as Laurie’s music. I want to do something
splendid before I go into my castle, something heroic or wonderful that
won’t be forgotten after I’m dead. I don’t know what, but I’m on the
watch for it, and mean to astonish you all some day. I think I shall
write books, and get rich and famous, that would suit me, so that is my
favorite dream.”

“Mine is to stay at home safe with Father and Mother, and help take
care of the family,” said Beth contentedly.

“Don’t you wish for anything else?” asked Laurie.

“Since I had my little piano, I am perfectly satisfied. I only wish we
may all keep well and be together, nothing else.”

“I have ever so many wishes, but the pet one is to be an artist, and go
to Rome, and do fine pictures, and be the best artist in the whole
world,” was Amy’s modest desire.

“We’re an ambitious set, aren’t we? Every one of us, but Beth, wants to
be rich and famous, and gorgeous in every respect. I do wonder if any
of us will ever get our wishes,” said Laurie, chewing grass like a
meditative calf.

“I’ve got the key to my castle in the air, but whether I can unlock the
door remains to be seen,” observed Jo mysteriously.

“I’ve got the key to mine, but I’m not allowed to try it. Hang
college!” muttered Laurie with an impatient sigh.

“Here’s mine!” and Amy waved her pencil.

“I haven’t got any,” said Meg forlornly.

“Yes, you have,” said Laurie at once.

“Where?”

“In your face.”

“Nonsense, that’s of no use.”

“Wait and see if it doesn’t bring you something worth having,” replied
the boy, laughing at the thought of a charming little secret which he
fancied he knew.

Meg colored behind the brake, but asked no questions and looked across
the river with the same expectant expression which Mr. Brooke had worn
when he told the story of the knight.

“If we are all alive ten years hence, let’s meet, and see how many of
us have got our wishes, or how much nearer we are then than now,” said
Jo, always ready with a plan.

“Bless me! How old I shall be, twenty-seven!” exclaimed Meg, who felt
grown up already, having just reached seventeen.

“You and I will be twenty-six, Teddy, Beth twenty-four, and Amy
twenty-two. What a venerable party!” said Jo.

“I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time, but
I’m such a lazy dog, I’m afraid I shall dawdle, Jo.”

“You need a motive, Mother says, and when you get it, she is sure
you’ll work splendidly.”