She put on her hat and jacket as noiselessly as possible, and going to
the back entry window, got out upon the roof of a low porch, swung
herself down to the grassy bank, and took a roundabout way to the road.
Once there, she composed herself, hailed a passing omnibus, and rolled
away to town, looking very merry and mysterious.

If anyone had been watching her, he would have thought her movements
decidedly peculiar, for on alighting, she went off at a great pace till
she reached a certain number in a certain busy street. Having found the
place with some difficulty, she went into the doorway, looked up the
dirty stairs, and after standing stock still a minute, suddenly dived
into the street and walked away as rapidly as she came. This maneuver
she repeated several times, to the great amusement of a black-eyed
young gentleman lounging in the window of a building opposite. On
returning for the third time, Jo gave herself a shake, pulled her hat
over her eyes, and walked up the stairs, looking as if she were going
to have all her teeth out.

There was a dentist’s sign, among others, which adorned the entrance,
and after staring a moment at the pair of artificial jaws which slowly
opened and shut to draw attention to a fine set of teeth, the young
gentleman put on his coat, took his hat, and went down to post himself
in the opposite doorway, saying with a smile and a shiver, “It’s like
her to come alone, but if she has a bad time she’ll need someone to
help her home.”

In ten minutes Jo came running downstairs with a very red face and the
general appearance of a person who had just passed through a trying
ordeal of some sort. When she saw the young gentleman she looked
anything but pleased, and passed him with a nod. But he followed,
asking with an air of sympathy, “Did you have a bad time?”

“Not very.”

“You got through quickly.”

“Yes, thank goodness!”

“Why did you go alone?”

“Didn’t want anyone to know.”

“You’re the oddest fellow I ever saw. How many did you have out?”

Jo looked at her friend as if she did not understand him, then began to
laugh as if mightily amused at something.

“There are two which I want to have come out, but I must wait a week.”

“What are you laughing at? You are up to some mischief, Jo,” said
Laurie, looking mystified.

“So are you. What were you doing, sir, up in that billiard saloon?”

“Begging your pardon, ma’am, it wasn’t a billiard saloon, but a
gymnasium, and I was taking a lesson in fencing.”

“I’m glad of that.”

“Why?”

“You can teach me, and then when we play _Hamlet_, you can be Laertes,
and we’ll make a fine thing of the fencing scene.”

Laurie burst out with a hearty boy’s laugh, which made several
passers-by smile in spite of themselves.