“Because if you are, I’ll take a bus. If you’re not, I’d like to walk
with you and tell you something very interesting.”

“I won’t preach any more, and I’d like to hear the news immensely.”

“Very well, then, come on. It’s a secret, and if I tell you, you must
tell me yours.”

“I haven’t got any,” began Jo, but stopped suddenly, remembering that
she had.

“You know you have—you can’t hide anything, so up and ’fess, or I won’t
tell,” cried Laurie.

“Is your secret a nice one?”

“Oh, isn’t it! All about people you know, and such fun! You ought to
hear it, and I’ve been aching to tell it this long time. Come, you
begin.”

“You’ll not say anything about it at home, will you?”

“Not a word.”

“And you won’t tease me in private?”

“I never tease.”

“Yes, you do. You get everything you want out of people. I don’t know
how you do it, but you are a born wheedler.”

“Thank you. Fire away.”

“Well, I’ve left two stories with a newspaperman, and he’s to give his
answer next week,” whispered Jo, in her confidant’s ear.

“Hurrah for Miss March, the celebrated American authoress!” cried
Laurie, throwing up his hat and catching it again, to the great delight
of two ducks, four cats, five hens, and half a dozen Irish children,
for they were out of the city now.

“Hush! It won’t come to anything, I dare say, but I couldn’t rest till
I had tried, and I said nothing about it because I didn’t want anyone
else to be disappointed.”

“It won’t fail. Why, Jo, your stories are works of Shakespeare compared
to half the rubbish that is published every day. Won’t it be fun to see
them in print, and shan’t we feel proud of our authoress?”

Jo’s eyes sparkled, for it is always pleasant to be believed in, and a
friend’s praise is always sweeter than a dozen newspaper puffs.

“Where’s your secret? Play fair, Teddy, or I’ll never believe you
again,” she said, trying to extinguish the brilliant hopes that blazed
up at a word of encouragement.

“I may get into a scrape for telling, but I didn’t promise not to, so I
will, for I never feel easy in my mind till I’ve told you any plummy
bit of news I get. I know where Meg’s glove is.”

“Is that all?” said Jo, looking disappointed, as Laurie nodded and
twinkled with a face full of mysterious intelligence.

“It’s quite enough for the present, as you’ll agree when I tell you
where it is.”

“Tell, then.”

Laurie bent, and whispered three words in Jo’s ear, which produced a
comical change. She stood and stared at him for a minute, looking both
surprised and displeased, then walked on, saying sharply, “How do you
know?”

“Saw it.”

“Where?”

“Pocket.”

“All this time?”

“Yes, isn’t that romantic?”

“No, it’s horrid.”

“Don’t you like it?”

“Of course I don’t. It’s ridiculous, it won’t be allowed. My patience!
What would Meg say?”