“You are not to tell anyone. Mind that.”

“I didn’t promise.”

“That was understood, and I trusted you.”

“Well, I won’t for the present, anyway, but I’m disgusted, and wish you
hadn’t told me.”

“I thought you’d be pleased.”

“At the idea of anybody coming to take Meg away? No, thank you.”

“You’ll feel better about it when somebody comes to take you away.”

“I’d like to see anyone try it,” cried Jo fiercely.

“So should I!” and Laurie chuckled at the idea.

“I don’t think secrets agree with me, I feel rumpled up in my mind
since you told me that,” said Jo rather ungratefully.

“Race down this hill with me, and you’ll be all right,” suggested
Laurie.

No one was in sight, the smooth road sloped invitingly before her, and
finding the temptation irresistible, Jo darted away, soon leaving hat
and comb behind her and scattering hairpins as she ran. Laurie reached
the goal first and was quite satisfied with the success of his
treatment, for his Atlanta came panting up with flying hair, bright
eyes, ruddy cheeks, and no signs of dissatisfaction in her face.

“I wish I was a horse, then I could run for miles in this splendid air,
and not lose my breath. It was capital, but see what a guy it’s made
me. Go, pick up my things, like a cherub, as you are,” said Jo,
dropping down under a maple tree, which was carpeting the bank with
crimson leaves.

Laurie leisurely departed to recover the lost property, and Jo bundled
up her braids, hoping no one would pass by till she was tidy again. But
someone did pass, and who should it be but Meg, looking particularly
ladylike in her state and festival suit, for she had been making calls.

“What in the world are you doing here?” she asked, regarding her
disheveled sister with well-bred surprise.

“Getting leaves,” meekly answered Jo, sorting the rosy handful she had
just swept up.

“And hairpins,” added Laurie, throwing half a dozen into Jo’s lap.
“They grow on this road, Meg, so do combs and brown straw hats.”

“You have been running, Jo. How could you? When will you stop such
romping ways?” said Meg reprovingly, as she settled her cuffs and
smoothed her hair, with which the wind had taken liberties.

“Never till I’m stiff and old and have to use a crutch. Don’t try to
make me grow up before my time, Meg. It’s hard enough to have you
change all of a sudden. Let me be a little girl as long as I can.”

As she spoke, Jo bent over the leaves to hide the trembling of her
lips, for lately she had felt that Margaret was fast getting to be a
woman, and Laurie’s secret made her dread the separation which must
surely come some time and now seemed very near. He saw the trouble in
her face and drew Meg’s attention from it by asking quickly, “Where
have you been calling, all so fine?”