Jo’s breath gave out here, and wrapping her head in the paper, she
bedewed her little story with a few natural tears, for to be
independent and earn the praise of those she loved were the dearest
wishes of her heart, and this seemed to be the first step toward that
happy end.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
A TELEGRAM

“November is the most disagreeable month in the whole year,” said
Margaret, standing at the window one dull afternoon, looking out at the
frostbitten garden.

“That’s the reason I was born in it,” observed Jo pensively, quite
unconscious of the blot on her nose.

“If something very pleasant should happen now, we should think it a
delightful month,” said Beth, who took a hopeful view of everything,
even November.

“I dare say, but nothing pleasant ever does happen in this family,”
said Meg, who was out of sorts. “We go grubbing along day after day,
without a bit of change, and very little fun. We might as well be in a
treadmill.”

“My patience, how blue we are!” cried Jo. “I don’t much wonder, poor
dear, for you see other girls having splendid times, while you grind,
grind, year in and year out. Oh, don’t I wish I could manage things for
you as I do for my heroines! You’re pretty enough and good enough
already, so I’d have some rich relation leave you a fortune
unexpectedly. Then you’d dash out as an heiress, scorn everyone who has
slighted you, go abroad, and come home my Lady Something in a blaze of
splendor and elegance.”

“People don’t have fortunes left them in that style nowadays, men have
to work and women marry for money. It’s a dreadfully unjust world,”
said Meg bitterly.

“Jo and I are going to make fortunes for you all. Just wait ten years,
and see if we don’t,” said Amy, who sat in a corner making mud pies, as
Hannah called her little clay models of birds, fruit, and faces.

“Can’t wait, and I’m afraid I haven’t much faith in ink and dirt,
though I’m grateful for your good intentions.”

Meg sighed, and turned to the frostbitten garden again. Jo groaned and
leaned both elbows on the table in a despondent attitude, but Amy
spatted away energetically, and Beth, who sat at the other window,
said, smiling, “Two pleasant things are going to happen right away.
Marmee is coming down the street, and Laurie is tramping through the
garden as if he had something nice to tell.”

In they both came, Mrs. March with her usual question, “Any letter from
Father, girls?” and Laurie to say in his persuasive way, “Won’t some of
you come for a drive? I’ve been working away at mathematics till my
head is in a muddle, and I’m going to freshen my wits by a brisk turn.
It’s a dull day, but the air isn’t bad, and I’m going to take Brooke
home, so it will be gay inside, if it isn’t out. Come, Jo, you and Beth
will go, won’t you?”

“Of course we will.”