“Your hair! Your beautiful hair!” “Oh, Jo, how could you? Your one
beauty.” “My dear girl, there was no need of this.” “She doesn’t look
like my Jo any more, but I love her dearly for it!”

As everyone exclaimed, and Beth hugged the cropped head tenderly, Jo
assumed an indifferent air, which did not deceive anyone a particle,
and said, rumpling up the brown bush and trying to look as if she liked
it, “It doesn’t affect the fate of the nation, so don’t wail, Beth. It
will be good for my vanity, I was getting too proud of my wig. It will
do my brains good to have that mop taken off. My head feels deliciously
light and cool, and the barber said I could soon have a curly crop,
which will be boyish, becoming, and easy to keep in order. I’m
satisfied, so please take the money and let’s have supper.”

“Tell me all about it, Jo. I am not quite satisfied, but I can’t blame
you, for I know how willingly you sacrificed your vanity, as you call
it, to your love. But, my dear, it was not necessary, and I’m afraid
you will regret it one of these days,” said Mrs. March.

“No, I won’t!” returned Jo stoutly, feeling much relieved that her
prank was not entirely condemned.

“What made you do it?” asked Amy, who would as soon have thought of
cutting off her head as her pretty hair.

“Well, I was wild to do something for Father,” replied Jo, as they
gathered about the table, for healthy young people can eat even in the
midst of trouble. “I hate to borrow as much as Mother does, and I knew
Aunt March would croak, she always does, if you ask for a ninepence.
Meg gave all her quarterly salary toward the rent, and I only got some
clothes with mine, so I felt wicked, and was bound to have some money,
if I sold the nose off my face to get it.”

“You needn’t feel wicked, my child! You had no winter things and got
the simplest with your own hard earnings,” said Mrs. March with a look
that warmed Jo’s heart.

“I hadn’t the least idea of selling my hair at first, but as I went
along I kept thinking what I could do, and feeling as if I’d like to
dive into some of the rich stores and help myself. In a barber’s window
I saw tails of hair with the prices marked, and one black tail, not so
thick as mine, was forty dollars. It came to me all of a sudden that I
had one thing to make money out of, and without stopping to think, I
walked in, asked if they bought hair, and what they would give for
mine.”

“I don’t see how you dared to do it,” said Beth in a tone of awe.