“Oh, he was a little man who looked as if he merely lived to oil his
hair. He rather stared at first, as if he wasn’t used to having girls
bounce into his shop and ask him to buy their hair. He said he didn’t
care about mine, it wasn’t the fashionable color, and he never paid
much for it in the first place. The work put into it made it dear, and
so on. It was getting late, and I was afraid if it wasn’t done right
away that I shouldn’t have it done at all, and you know when I start to
do a thing, I hate to give it up. So I begged him to take it, and told
him why I was in such a hurry. It was silly, I dare say, but it changed
his mind, for I got rather excited, and told the story in my
topsy-turvy way, and his wife heard, and said so kindly, ‘Take it,
Thomas, and oblige the young lady. I’d do as much for our Jimmy any day
if I had a spire of hair worth selling.”

“Who was Jimmy?” asked Amy, who liked to have things explained as they
went along.

“Her son, she said, who was in the army. How friendly such things make
strangers feel, don’t they? She talked away all the time the man
clipped, and diverted my mind nicely.”

“Didn’t you feel dreadfully when the first cut came?” asked Meg, with a
shiver.

“I took a last look at my hair while the man got his things, and that
was the end of it. I never snivel over trifles like that. I will
confess, though, I felt queer when I saw the dear old hair laid out on
the table, and felt only the short rough ends of my head. It almost
seemed as if I’d an arm or leg off. The woman saw me look at it, and
picked out a long lock for me to keep. I’ll give it to you, Marmee,
just to remember past glories by, for a crop is so comfortable I don’t
think I shall ever have a mane again.”

Mrs. March folded the wavy chestnut lock, and laid it away with a short
gray one in her desk. She only said, “Thank you, deary,” but something
in her face made the girls change the subject, and talk as cheerfully
as they could about Mr. Brooke’s kindness, the prospect of a fine day
tomorrow, and the happy times they would have when Father came home to
be nursed.

No one wanted to go to bed when at ten o’clock Mrs. March put by the
last finished job, and said, “Come girls.” Beth went to the piano and
played the father’s favorite hymn. All began bravely, but broke down
one by one till Beth was left alone, singing with all her heart, for to
her music was always a sweet consoler.