Three cheers for dear Father! Brooke was a trump to telegraph right
off, and let us know the minute he was better. I rushed up garret when
the letter came, and tried to thank God for being so good to us, but I
could only cry, and say, “I’m glad! I’m glad!” Didn’t that do as well
as a regular prayer? For I felt a great many in my heart. We have such
funny times, and now I can enjoy them, for everyone is so desperately
good, it’s like living in a nest of turtledoves. You’d laugh to see Meg
head the table and try to be motherish. She gets prettier every day,
and I’m in love with her sometimes. The children are regular
archangels, and I—well, I’m Jo, and never shall be anything else. Oh, I
must tell you that I came near having a quarrel with Laurie. I freed my
mind about a silly little thing, and he was offended. I was right, but
didn’t speak as I ought, and he marched home, saying he wouldn’t come
again till I begged pardon. I declared I wouldn’t and got mad. It
lasted all day. I felt bad and wanted you very much. Laurie and I are
both so proud, it’s hard to beg pardon. But I thought he’d come to it,
for I was in the right. He didn’t come, and just at night I remembered
what you said when Amy fell into the river. I read my little book, felt
better, resolved not to let the sun set on my anger, and ran over to
tell Laurie I was sorry. I met him at the gate, coming for the same
thing. We both laughed, begged each other’s pardon, and felt all good
and comfortable again.

I made a ‘pome’ yesterday, when I was helping Hannah wash, and as
Father likes my silly little things, I put it in to amuse him. Give him
my lovingest hug that ever was, and kiss yourself a dozen times for
your...

TOPSY-TURVY JO

A SONG FROM THE SUDS

Queen of my tub, I merrily sing,
While the white foam rises high,
And sturdily wash and rinse and wring,
And fasten the clothes to dry.
Then out in the free fresh air they swing,
Under the sunny sky.

I wish we could wash from our hearts and souls
The stains of the week away,
And let water and air by their magic make
Ourselves as pure as they.
Then on the earth there would be indeed,
A glorious washing day!

Along the path of a useful life,
Will heart’s-ease ever bloom.
The busy mind has no time to think
Of sorrow or care or gloom.
And anxious thoughts may be swept away,
As we bravely wield a broom.

I am glad a task to me is given,
To labor at day by day,
For it brings me health and strength and hope,
And I cheerfully learn to say,
“Head, you may think, Heart, you may feel,
But, Hand, you shall work alway!”

Dear Mother,