I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate. The girls is clever and
fly round right smart. Miss Meg is going to make a proper good
housekeeper. She hes the liking for it, and gits the hang of things
surprisin quick. Jo doos beat all for goin ahead, but she don’t stop to
cal’k’late fust, and you never know where she’s like to bring up. She
done out a tub of clothes on Monday, but she starched ’em afore they
was wrenched, and blued a pink calico dress till I thought I should a
died a laughin. Beth is the best of little creeters, and a sight of
help to me, bein so forehanded and dependable. She tries to learn
everything, and really goes to market beyond her years, likewise keeps
accounts, with my help, quite wonderful. We have got on very economical
so fur. I don’t let the girls hev coffee only once a week, accordin to
your wish, and keep em on plain wholesome vittles. Amy does well
without frettin, wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff. Mr.
Laurie is as full of didoes as usual, and turns the house upside down
frequent, but he heartens the girls, so I let em hev full swing. The
old gentleman sends heaps of things, and is rather wearin, but means
wal, and it aint my place to say nothin. My bread is riz, so no more at
this time. I send my duty to Mr. March, and hope he’s seen the last of
his Pewmonia.

Yours respectful,
Hannah Mullet

Head Nurse of Ward No. 2,

All serene on the Rappahannock, troops in fine condition, commisary
department well conducted, the Home Guard under Colonel Teddy always on
duty, Commander in Chief General Laurence reviews the army daily,
Quartermaster Mullet keeps order in camp, and Major Lion does picket
duty at night. A salute of twenty-four guns was fired on receipt of
good news from Washington, and a dress parade took place at
headquarters. Commander in chief sends best wishes, in which he is
heartily joined by...

COLONEL TEDDY

Dear Madam:

The little girls are all well. Beth and my boy report daily. Hannah is
a model servant, and guards pretty Meg like a dragon. Glad the fine
weather holds. Pray make Brooke useful, and draw on me for funds if
expenses exceed your estimate. Don’t let your husband want anything.
Thank God he is mending.

Your sincere friend and servant, JAMES LAURENCE

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
LITTLE FAITHFUL