“I have been every day, but the baby is sick, and I don’t know what to
do for it. Mrs. Hummel goes away to work, and Lottchen takes care of
it. But it gets sicker and sicker, and I think you or Hannah ought to
go.”

Beth spoke earnestly, and Meg promised she would go tomorrow.

“Ask Hannah for some nice little mess, and take it round, Beth, the air
will do you good,” said Jo, adding apologetically, “I’d go but I want
to finish my writing.”

“My head aches and I’m tired, so I thought maybe some of you would go,”
said Beth.

“Amy will be in presently, and she will run down for us,” suggested
Meg.

So Beth lay down on the sofa, the others returned to their work, and
the Hummels were forgotten. An hour passed. Amy did not come, Meg went
to her room to try on a new dress, Jo was absorbed in her story, and
Hannah was sound asleep before the kitchen fire, when Beth quietly put
on her hood, filled her basket with odds and ends for the poor
children, and went out into the chilly air with a heavy head and a
grieved look in her patient eyes. It was late when she came back, and
no one saw her creep upstairs and shut herself into her mother’s room.
Half an hour after, Jo went to ‘Mother’s closet’ for something, and
there found little Beth sitting on the medicine chest, looking very
grave, with red eyes and a camphor bottle in her hand.

“Christopher Columbus! What’s the matter?” cried Jo, as Beth put out
her hand as if to warn her off, and asked quickly. . .

“You’ve had the scarlet fever, haven’t you?”

“Years ago, when Meg did. Why?”

“Then I’ll tell you. Oh, Jo, the baby’s dead!”

“What baby?”

“Mrs. Hummel’s. It died in my lap before she got home,” cried Beth with
a sob.

“My poor dear, how dreadful for you! I ought to have gone,” said Jo,
taking her sister in her arms as she sat down in her mother’s big
chair, with a remorseful face.

“It wasn’t dreadful, Jo, only so sad! I saw in a minute it was sicker,
but Lottchen said her mother had gone for a doctor, so I took Baby and
let Lotty rest. It seemed asleep, but all of a sudden if gave a little
cry and trembled, and then lay very still. I tried to warm its feet,
and Lotty gave it some milk, but it didn’t stir, and I knew it was
dead.”

“Don’t cry, dear! What did you do?”