“How is the little dear?” asked Laurie, for Beth was his especial pet,
and he felt more anxious about her than he liked to show.

“She is lying down on Mother’s bed, and feels better. The baby’s death
troubled her, but I dare say she has only got cold. Hannah says she
thinks so, but she looks worried, and that makes me fidgety,” answered
Meg.

“What a trying world it is!” said Jo, rumpling up her hair in a fretful
way. “No sooner do we get out of one trouble than down comes another.
There doesn’t seem to be anything to hold on to when Mother’s gone, so
I’m all at sea.”

“Well, don’t make a porcupine of yourself, it isn’t becoming. Settle
your wig, Jo, and tell me if I shall telegraph to your mother, or do
anything?” asked Laurie, who never had been reconciled to the loss of
his friend’s one beauty.

“That is what troubles me,” said Meg. “I think we ought to tell her if
Beth is really ill, but Hannah says we mustn’t, for Mother can’t leave
Father, and it will only make them anxious. Beth won’t be sick long,
and Hannah knows just what to do, and Mother said we were to mind her,
so I suppose we must, but it doesn’t seem quite right to me.”

“Hum, well, I can’t say. Suppose you ask Grandfather after the doctor
has been.”

“We will. Jo, go and get Dr. Bangs at once,” commanded Meg. “We can’t
decide anything till he has been.”

“Stay where you are, Jo. I’m errand boy to this establishment,” said
Laurie, taking up his cap.

“I’m afraid you are busy,” began Meg.

“No, I’ve done my lessons for the day.”

“Do you study in vacation time?” asked Jo.

“I follow the good example my neighbors set me,” was Laurie’s answer,
as he swung himself out of the room.

“I have great hopes for my boy,” observed Jo, watching him fly over the
fence with an approving smile.

“He does very well, for a boy,” was Meg’s somewhat ungracious answer,
for the subject did not interest her.

Dr. Bangs came, said Beth had symptoms of the fever, but he thought she
would have it lightly, though he looked sober over the Hummel story.
Amy was ordered off at once, and provided with something to ward off
danger, she departed in great state, with Jo and Laurie as escort.

Aunt March received them with her usual hospitality.

“What do you want now?” she asked, looking sharply over her spectacles,
while the parrot, sitting on the back of her chair, called out...

“Go away. No boys allowed here.”

Laurie retired to the window, and Jo told her story.

“No more than I expected, if you are allowed to go poking about among
poor folks. Amy can stay and make herself useful if she isn’t sick,
which I’ve no doubt she will be, looks like it now. Don’t cry, child,
it worries me to hear people sniff.”