Amy was on the point of crying, but Laurie slyly pulled the parrot’s
tail, which caused Polly to utter an astonished croak and call out,
“Bless my boots!” in such a funny way, that she laughed instead.

“What do you hear from your mother?” asked the old lady gruffly.

“Father is much better,” replied Jo, trying to keep sober.

“Oh, is he? Well, that won’t last long, I fancy. March never had any
stamina,” was the cheerful reply.

“Ha, ha! Never say die, take a pinch of snuff, goodbye, goodbye!”
squalled Polly, dancing on her perch, and clawing at the old lady’s cap
as Laurie tweaked him in the rear.

“Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird! And, Jo, you’d better go
at once. It isn’t proper to be gadding about so late with a rattlepated
boy like...”

“Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird!” cried Polly, tumbling
off the chair with a bounce, and running to peck the ‘rattlepated’ boy,
who was shaking with laughter at the last speech.

“I don’t think I can bear it, but I’ll try,” thought Amy, as she was
left alone with Aunt March.

“Get along, you fright!” screamed Polly, and at that rude speech Amy
could not restrain a sniff.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
DARK DAYS

Beth did have the fever, and was much sicker than anyone but Hannah and
the doctor suspected. The girls knew nothing about illness, and Mr.
Laurence was not allowed to see her, so Hannah had everything her own
way, and busy Dr. Bangs did his best, but left a good deal to the
excellent nurse. Meg stayed at home, lest she should infect the Kings,
and kept house, feeling very anxious and a little guilty when she wrote
letters in which no mention was made of Beth’s illness. She could not
think it right to deceive her mother, but she had been bidden to mind
Hannah, and Hannah wouldn’t hear of ‘Mrs. March bein’ told, and worried
just for sech a trifle.’

Jo devoted herself to Beth day and night, not a hard task, for Beth was
very patient, and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long as she could
control herself. But there came a time when during the fever fits she
began to talk in a hoarse, broken voice, to play on the coverlet as if
on her beloved little piano, and try to sing with a throat so swollen
that there was no music left, a time when she did not know the familiar
faces around her, but addressed them by wrong names, and called
imploringly for her mother. Then Jo grew frightened, Meg begged to be
allowed to write the truth, and even Hannah said she ‘would think of
it, though there was no danger yet’. A letter from Washington added to
their trouble, for Mr. March had had a relapse, and could not think of
coming home for a long while.