“Keep hoping for the best, that will help you, Jo. Soon your mother
will be here, and then everything will be all right.”

“I’m so glad Father is better. Now she won’t feel so bad about leaving
him. Oh, me! It does seem as if all the troubles came in a heap, and I
got the heaviest part on my shoulders,” sighed Jo, spreading her wet
handkerchief over her knees to dry.

“Doesn’t Meg pull fair?” asked Laurie, looking indignant.

“Oh, yes, she tries to, but she can’t love Bethy as I do, and she won’t
miss her as I shall. Beth is my conscience, and I can’t give her up. I
can’t! I can’t!”

Down went Jo’s face into the wet handkerchief, and she cried
despairingly, for she had kept up bravely till now and never shed a
tear. Laurie drew his hand across his eyes, but could not speak till he
had subdued the choky feeling in his throat and steadied his lips. It
might be unmanly, but he couldn’t help it, and I am glad of it.
Presently, as Jo’s sobs quieted, he said hopefully, “I don’t think she
will die. She’s so good, and we all love her so much, I don’t believe
God will take her away yet.”

“The good and dear people always do die,” groaned Jo, but she stopped
crying, for her friend’s words cheered her up in spite of her own
doubts and fears.

“Poor girl, you’re worn out. It isn’t like you to be forlorn. Stop a
bit. I’ll hearten you up in a jiffy.”

Laurie went off two stairs at a time, and Jo laid her wearied head down
on Beth’s little brown hood, which no one had thought of moving from
the table where she left it. It must have possessed some magic, for the
submissive spirit of its gentle owner seemed to enter into Jo, and when
Laurie came running down with a glass of wine, she took it with a
smile, and said bravely, “I drink— Health to my Beth! You are a good
doctor, Teddy, and such a comfortable friend. How can I ever pay you?”
she added, as the wine refreshed her body, as the kind words had done
her troubled mind.

“I’ll send my bill, by-and-by, and tonight I’ll give you something that
will warm the cockles of your heart better than quarts of wine,” said
Laurie, beaming at her with a face of suppressed satisfaction at
something.

“What is it?” cried Jo, forgetting her woes for a minute in her wonder.

“I telegraphed to your mother yesterday, and Brooke answered she’d come
at once, and she’ll be here tonight, and everything will be all right.
Aren’t you glad I did it?”