Laurie spoke very fast, and turned red and excited all in a minute, for
he had kept his plot a secret, for fear of disappointing the girls or
harming Beth. Jo grew quite white, flew out of her chair, and the
moment he stopped speaking she electrified him by throwing her arms
round his neck, and crying out, with a joyful cry, “Oh, Laurie! Oh,
Mother! I am so glad!” She did not weep again, but laughed
hysterically, and trembled and clung to her friend as if she was a
little bewildered by the sudden news.

Laurie, though decidedly amazed, behaved with great presence of mind.
He patted her back soothingly, and finding that she was recovering,
followed it up by a bashful kiss or two, which brought Jo round at
once. Holding on to the banisters, she put him gently away, saying
breathlessly, “Oh, don’t! I didn’t mean to, it was dreadful of me, but
you were such a dear to go and do it in spite of Hannah that I couldn’t
help flying at you. Tell me all about it, and don’t give me wine again,
it makes me act so.”

“I don’t mind,” laughed Laurie, as he settled his tie. “Why, you see I
got fidgety, and so did Grandpa. We thought Hannah was overdoing the
authority business, and your mother ought to know. She’d never forgive
us if Beth... Well, if anything happened, you know. So I got grandpa to
say it was high time we did something, and off I pelted to the office
yesterday, for the doctor looked sober, and Hannah most took my head
off when I proposed a telegram. I never can bear to be ‘lorded over’,
so that settled my mind, and I did it. Your mother will come, I know,
and the late train is in at two A.M. I shall go for her, and you’ve
only got to bottle up your rapture, and keep Beth quiet till that
blessed lady gets here.”

“Laurie, you’re an angel! How shall I ever thank you?”

“Fly at me again. I rather liked it,” said Laurie, looking mischievous,
a thing he had not done for a fortnight.

“No, thank you. I’ll do it by proxy, when your grandpa comes. Don’t
tease, but go home and rest, for you’ll be up half the night. Bless
you, Teddy, bless you!”

Jo had backed into a corner, and as she finished her speech, she
vanished precipitately into the kitchen, where she sat down upon a
dresser and told the assembled cats that she was “happy, oh, so happy!”
while Laurie departed, feeling that he had made a rather neat thing of
it.

“That’s the interferingest chap I ever see, but I forgive him and do
hope Mrs. March is coming right away,” said Hannah, with an air of
relief, when Jo told the good news.