Meg had a quiet rapture, and then brooded over the letter, while Jo set
the sickroom in order, and Hannah “knocked up a couple of pies in case
of company unexpected”. A breath of fresh air seemed to blow through
the house, and something better than sunshine brightened the quiet
rooms. Everything appeared to feel the hopeful change. Beth’s bird
began to chirp again, and a half-blown rose was discovered on Amy’s
bush in the window. The fires seemed to burn with unusual cheeriness,
and every time the girls met, their pale faces broke into smiles as
they hugged one another, whispering encouragingly, “Mother’s coming,
dear! Mother’s coming!” Every one rejoiced but Beth. She lay in that
heavy stupor, alike unconscious of hope and joy, doubt and danger. It
was a piteous sight, the once rosy face so changed and vacant, the once
busy hands so weak and wasted, the once smiling lips quite dumb, and
the once pretty, well-kept hair scattered rough and tangled on the
pillow. All day she lay so, only rousing now and then to mutter,
“Water!” with lips so parched they could hardly shape the word. All day
Jo and Meg hovered over her, watching, waiting, hoping, and trusting in
God and Mother, and all day the snow fell, the bitter wind raged, and
the hours dragged slowly by. But night came at last, and every time the
clock struck, the sisters, still sitting on either side of the bed,
looked at each other with brightening eyes, for each hour brought help
nearer. The doctor had been in to say that some change, for better or
worse, would probably take place about midnight, at which time he would
return.

Hannah, quite worn out, lay down on the sofa at the bed’s foot and fell
fast asleep, Mr. Laurence marched to and fro in the parlor, feeling
that he would rather face a rebel battery than Mrs. March’s countenance
as she entered. Laurie lay on the rug, pretending to rest, but staring
into the fire with the thoughtful look which made his black eyes
beautifully soft and clear.

The girls never forgot that night, for no sleep came to them as they
kept their watch, with that dreadful sense of powerlessness which comes
to us in hours like those.

“If God spares Beth, I never will complain again,” whispered Meg
earnestly.

“If God spares Beth, I’ll try to love and serve Him all my life,”
answered Jo, with equal fervor.

“I wish I had no heart, it aches so,” sighed Meg, after a pause.

“If life is often as hard as this, I don’t see how we ever shall get
through it,” added her sister despondently.