Esther was a Frenchwoman, who had lived with ‘Madame’, as she called
her mistress, for many years, and who rather tyrannized over the old
lady, who could not get along without her. Her real name was Estelle,
but Aunt March ordered her to change it, and she obeyed, on condition
that she was never asked to change her religion. She took a fancy to
Mademoiselle, and amused her very much with odd stories of her life in
France, when Amy sat with her while she got up Madame’s laces. She also
allowed her to roam about the great house, and examine the curious and
pretty things stored away in the big wardrobes and the ancient chests,
for Aunt March hoarded like a magpie. Amy’s chief delight was an Indian
cabinet, full of queer drawers, little pigeonholes, and secret places,
in which were kept all sorts of ornaments, some precious, some merely
curious, all more or less antique. To examine and arrange these things
gave Amy great satisfaction, especially the jewel cases, in which on
velvet cushions reposed the ornaments which had adorned a belle forty
years ago. There was the garnet set which Aunt March wore when she came
out, the pearls her father gave her on her wedding day, her lover’s
diamonds, the jet mourning rings and pins, the queer lockets, with
portraits of dead friends and weeping willows made of hair inside, the
baby bracelets her one little daughter had worn, Uncle March’s big
watch, with the red seal so many childish hands had played with, and in
a box all by itself lay Aunt March’s wedding ring, too small now for
her fat finger, but put carefully away like the most precious jewel of
them all.

“Which would Mademoiselle choose if she had her will?” asked Esther,
who always sat near to watch over and lock up the valuables.

“I like the diamonds best, but there is no necklace among them, and I’m
fond of necklaces, they are so becoming. I should choose this if I
might,” replied Amy, looking with great admiration at a string of gold
and ebony beads from which hung a heavy cross of the same.

“I, too, covet that, but not as a necklace. Ah, no! To me it is a
rosary, and as such I should use it like a good catholic,” said Esther,
eyeing the handsome thing wistfully.

“Is it meant to use as you use the string of good-smelling wooden beads
hanging over your glass?” asked Amy.

“Truly, yes, to pray with. It would be pleasing to the saints if one
used so fine a rosary as this, instead of wearing it as a vain bijou.”

“You seem to take a great deal of comfort in your prayers, Esther, and
always come down looking quiet and satisfied. I wish I could.”