During one of her play hours she wrote out the important document as
well as she could, with some help from Esther as to certain legal
terms, and when the good-natured Frenchwoman had signed her name, Amy
felt relieved and laid it by to show Laurie, whom she wanted as a
second witness. As it was a rainy day, she went upstairs to amuse
herself in one of the large chambers, and took Polly with her for
company. In this room there was a wardrobe full of old-fashioned
costumes with which Esther allowed her to play, and it was her favorite
amusement to array herself in the faded brocades, and parade up and
down before the long mirror, making stately curtsies, and sweeping her
train about with a rustle which delighted her ears. So busy was she on
this day that she did not hear Laurie’s ring nor see his face peeping
in at her as she gravely promenaded to and fro, flirting her fan and
tossing her head, on which she wore a great pink turban, contrasting
oddly with her blue brocade dress and yellow quilted petticoat. She was
obliged to walk carefully, for she had on high-heeled shoes, and, as
Laurie told Jo afterward, it was a comical sight to see her mince along
in her gay suit, with Polly sidling and bridling just behind her,
imitating her as well as he could, and occasionally stopping to laugh
or exclaim, “Ain’t we fine? Get along, you fright! Hold your tongue!
Kiss me, dear! Ha! Ha!”

Having with difficulty restrained an explosion of merriment, lest it
should offend her majesty, Laurie tapped and was graciously received.

“Sit down and rest while I put these things away, then I want to
consult you about a very serious matter,” said Amy, when she had shown
her splendor and driven Polly into a corner. “That bird is the trial of
my life,” she continued, removing the pink mountain from her head,
while Laurie seated himself astride a chair.

“Yesterday, when Aunt was asleep and I was trying to be as still as a
mouse, Polly began to squall and flap about in his cage, so I went to
let him out, and found a big spider there. I poked it out, and it ran
under the bookcase. Polly marched straight after it, stooped down and
peeped under the bookcase, saying, in his funny way, with a cock of his
eye, ‘Come out and take a walk, my dear.’ I couldn’t help laughing,
which made Poll swear, and Aunt woke up and scolded us both.”

“Did the spider accept the old fellow’s invitation?” asked Laurie,
yawning.

“Yes, out it came, and away ran Polly, frightened to death, and
scrambled up on Aunt’s chair, calling out, ‘Catch her! Catch her! Catch
her!’ as I chased the spider.”

“That’s a lie! Oh, lor!” cried the parrot, pecking at Laurie’s toes.