The last name was written in pencil, and Amy explained that he was to
rewrite it in ink and seal it up for her properly.

“What put it into your head? Did anyone tell you about Beth’s giving
away her things?” asked Laurie soberly, as Amy laid a bit of red tape,
with sealing wax, a taper, and a standish before him.

She explained and then asked anxiously, “What about Beth?”

“I’m sorry I spoke, but as I did, I’ll tell you. She felt so ill one
day that she told Jo she wanted to give her piano to Meg, her cats to
you, and the poor old doll to Jo, who would love it for her sake. She
was sorry she had so little to give, and left locks of hair to the rest
of us, and her best love to Grandpa. She never thought of a will.”

Laurie was signing and sealing as he spoke, and did not look up till a
great tear dropped on the paper. Amy’s face was full of trouble, but
she only said, “Don’t people put sort of postscripts to their wills,
sometimes?”

“Yes, ‘codicils’, they call them.”

“Put one in mine then, that I wish all my curls cut off, and given
round to my friends. I forgot it, but I want it done though it will
spoil my looks.”

Laurie added it, smiling at Amy’s last and greatest sacrifice. Then he
amused her for an hour, and was much interested in all her trials. But
when he came to go, Amy held him back to whisper with trembling lips,
“Is there really any danger about Beth?”

“I’m afraid there is, but we must hope for the best, so don’t cry,
dear.” And Laurie put his arm about her with a brotherly gesture which
was very comforting.

When he had gone, she went to her little chapel, and sitting in the
twilight, prayed for Beth, with streaming tears and an aching heart,
feeling that a million turquoise rings would not console her for the
loss of her gentle little sister.

CHAPTER TWENTY
CONFIDENTIAL

I don’t think I have any words in which to tell the meeting of the
mother and daughters. Such hours are beautiful to live, but very hard
to describe, so I will leave it to the imagination of my readers,
merely saying that the house was full of genuine happiness, and that
Meg’s tender hope was realized, for when Beth woke from that long,
healing sleep, the first objects on which her eyes fell were the little
rose and Mother’s face. Too weak to wonder at anything, she only smiled
and nestled close in the loving arms about her, feeling that the hungry
longing was satisfied at last. Then she slept again, and the girls
waited upon their mother, for she would not unclasp the thin hand which
clung to hers even in sleep.