Hannah had ‘dished up’ an astonishing breakfast for the traveler,
finding it impossible to vent her excitement in any other way, and Meg
and Jo fed their mother like dutiful young storks, while they listened
to her whispered account of Father’s state, Mr. Brooke’s promise to
stay and nurse him, the delays which the storm occasioned on the
homeward journey, and the unspeakable comfort Laurie’s hopeful face had
given her when she arrived, worn out with fatigue, anxiety, and cold.

What a strange yet pleasant day that was. So brilliant and gay without,
for all the world seemed abroad to welcome the first snow. So quiet and
reposeful within, for everyone slept, spent with watching, and a
Sabbath stillness reigned through the house, while nodding Hannah
mounted guard at the door. With a blissful sense of burdens lifted off,
Meg and Jo closed their weary eyes, and lay at rest, like storm-beaten
boats safe at anchor in a quiet harbor. Mrs. March would not leave
Beth’s side, but rested in the big chair, waking often to look at,
touch, and brood over her child, like a miser over some recovered
treasure.

Laurie meanwhile posted off to comfort Amy, and told his story so well
that Aunt March actually ‘sniffed’ herself, and never once said “I told
you so”. Amy came out so strong on this occasion that I think the good
thoughts in the little chapel really began to bear fruit. She dried her
tears quickly, restrained her impatience to see her mother, and never
even thought of the turquoise ring, when the old lady heartily agreed
in Laurie’s opinion, that she behaved ‘like a capital little woman’.
Even Polly seemed impressed, for he called her a good girl, blessed her
buttons, and begged her to “come and take a walk, dear”, in his most
affable tone. She would very gladly have gone out to enjoy the bright
wintry weather, but discovering that Laurie was dropping with sleep in
spite of manful efforts to conceal the fact, she persuaded him to rest
on the sofa, while she wrote a note to her mother. She was a long time
about it, and when she returned, he was stretched out with both arms
under his head, sound asleep, while Aunt March had pulled down the
curtains and sat doing nothing in an unusual fit of benignity.

After a while, they began to think he was not going to wake up till
night, and I’m not sure that he would, had he not been effectually
roused by Amy’s cry of joy at sight of her mother. There probably were
a good many happy little girls in and about the city that day, but it
is my private opinion that Amy was the happiest of all, when she sat in
her mother’s lap and told her trials, receiving consolation and
compensation in the shape of approving smiles and fond caresses. They
were alone together in the chapel, to which her mother did not object
when its purpose was explained to her.