“Mr. Brooke. I call him ‘John’ now. We fell into the way of doing so at
the hospital, and he likes it.”

“Oh, dear! I know you’ll take his part. He’s been good to Father, and
you won’t send him away, but let Meg marry him, if she wants to. Mean
thing! To go petting Papa and helping you, just to wheedle you into
liking him.” And Jo pulled her hair again with a wrathful tweak.

“My dear, don’t get angry about it, and I will tell you how it
happened. John went with me at Mr. Laurence’s request, and was so
devoted to poor Father that we couldn’t help getting fond of him. He
was perfectly open and honorable about Meg, for he told us he loved
her, but would earn a comfortable home before he asked her to marry
him. He only wanted our leave to love her and work for her, and the
right to make her love him if he could. He is a truly excellent young
man, and we could not refuse to listen to him, but I will not consent
to Meg’s engaging herself so young.”

“Of course not. It would be idiotic! I knew there was mischief brewing.
I felt it, and now it’s worse than I imagined. I just wish I could
marry Meg myself, and keep her safe in the family.”

This odd arrangement made Mrs. March smile, but she said gravely, “Jo,
I confide in you and don’t wish you to say anything to Meg yet. When
John comes back, and I see them together, I can judge better of her
feelings toward him.”

“She’ll see those handsome eyes that she talks about, and then it will
be all up with her. She’s got such a soft heart, it will melt like
butter in the sun if anyone looks sentimentlly at her. She read the
short reports he sent more than she did your letters, and pinched me
when I spoke of it, and likes brown eyes, and doesn’t think John an
ugly name, and she’ll go and fall in love, and there’s an end of peace
and fun, and cozy times together. I see it all! They’ll go lovering
around the house, and we shall have to dodge. Meg will be absorbed and
no good to me any more. Brooke will scratch up a fortune somehow, carry
her off, and make a hole in the family, and I shall break my heart, and
everything will be abominably uncomfortable. Oh, dear me! Why weren’t
we all boys, then there wouldn’t be any bother.”

Jo leaned her chin on her knees in a disconsolate attitude and shook
her fist at the reprehensible John. Mrs. March sighed, and Jo looked up
with an air of relief.

“You don’t like it, Mother? I’m glad of it. Let’s send him about his
business, and not tell Meg a word of it, but all be happy together as
we always have been.”