“I did wrong to sigh, Jo. It is natural and right you should all go to
homes of your own in time, but I do want to keep my girls as long as I
can, and I am sorry that this happened so soon, for Meg is only
seventeen and it will be some years before John can make a home for
her. Your father and I have agreed that she shall not bind herself in
any way, nor be married, before twenty. If she and John love one
another, they can wait, and test the love by doing so. She is
conscientious, and I have no fear of her treating him unkindly. My
pretty, tender hearted girl! I hope things will go happily with her.”

“Hadn’t you rather have her marry a rich man?” asked Jo, as her
mother’s voice faltered a little over the last words.

“Money is a good and useful thing, Jo, and I hope my girls will never
feel the need of it too bitterly, nor be tempted by too much. I should
like to know that John was firmly established in some good business,
which gave him an income large enough to keep free from debt and make
Meg comfortable. I’m not ambitious for a splendid fortune, a
fashionable position, or a great name for my girls. If rank and money
come with love and virtue, also, I should accept them gratefully, and
enjoy your good fortune, but I know, by experience, how much genuine
happiness can be had in a plain little house, where the daily bread is
earned, and some privations give sweetness to the few pleasures. I am
content to see Meg begin humbly, for if I am not mistaken, she will be
rich in the possession of a good man’s heart, and that is better than a
fortune.”

“I understand, Mother, and quite agree, but I’m disappointed about Meg,
for I’d planned to have her marry Teddy by-and-by and sit in the lap of
luxury all her days. Wouldn’t it be nice?” asked Jo, looking up with a
brighter face.

“He is younger than she, you know,” began Mrs. March, but Jo broke
in...

“Only a little, he’s old for his age, and tall, and can be quite
grown-up in his manners if he likes. Then he’s rich and generous and
good, and loves us all, and I say it’s a pity my plan is spoiled.”

“I’m afraid Laurie is hardly grown-up enough for Meg, and altogether
too much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend on. Don’t make
plans, Jo, but let time and their own hearts mate your friends. We
can’t meddle safely in such matters, and had better not get ‘romantic
rubbish’ as you call it, into our heads, lest it spoil our friendship.”