“Well, I won’t, but I hate to see things going all crisscross and
getting snarled up, when a pull here and a snip there would straighten
it out. I wish wearing flatirons on our heads would keep us from
growing up. But buds will be roses, and kittens cats, more’s the pity!”

“What’s that about flatirons and cats?” asked Meg, as she crept into
the room with the finished letter in her hand.

“Only one of my stupid speeches. I’m going to bed. Come, Peggy,” said
Jo, unfolding herself like an animated puzzle.

“Quite right, and beautifully written. Please add that I send my love
to John,” said Mrs. March, as she glanced over the letter and gave it
back.

“Do you call him ‘John’?” asked Meg, smiling, with her innocent eyes
looking down into her mother’s.

“Yes, he has been like a son to us, and we are very fond of him,”
replied Mrs. March, returning the look with a keen one.

“I’m glad of that, he is so lonely. Good night, Mother, dear. It is so
inexpressibly comfortable to have you here,” was Meg’s answer.

The kiss her mother gave her was a very tender one, and as she went
away, Mrs. March said, with a mixture of satisfaction and regret, “She
does not love John yet, but will soon learn to.”

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
LAURIE MAKES MISCHIEF, AND JO MAKES PEACE

Jo’s face was a study next day, for the secret rather weighed upon her,
and she found it hard not to look mysterious and important. Meg
observed it, but did not trouble herself to make inquiries, for she had
learned that the best way to manage Jo was by the law of contraries, so
she felt sure of being told everything if she did not ask. She was
rather surprised, therefore, when the silence remained unbroken, and Jo
assumed a patronizing air, which decidedly aggravated Meg, who in turn
assumed an air of dignified reserve and devoted herself to her mother.
This left Jo to her own devices, for Mrs. March had taken her place as
nurse, and bade her rest, exercise, and amuse herself after her long
confinement. Amy being gone, Laurie was her only refuge, and much as
she enjoyed his society, she rather dreaded him just then, for he was
an incorrigible tease, and she feared he would coax the secret from
her.

She was quite right, for the mischief-loving lad no sooner suspected a
mystery than he set himself to find it out, and led Jo a trying life of
it. He wheedled, bribed, ridiculed, threatened, and scolded; affected
indifference, that he might surprise the truth from her; declared he
knew, then that he didn’t care; and at last, by dint of perseverance,
he satisfied himself that it concerned Meg and Mr. Brooke. Feeling
indignant that he was not taken into his tutor’s confidence, he set his
wits to work to devise some proper retaliation for the slight.