Meg meanwhile had apparently forgotten the matter and was absorbed in
preparations for her father’s return, but all of a sudden a change
seemed to come over her, and, for a day or two, she was quite unlike
herself. She started when spoken to, blushed when looked at, was very
quiet, and sat over her sewing, with a timid, troubled look on her
face. To her mother’s inquiries she answered that she was quite well,
and Jo’s she silenced by begging to be let alone.

“She feels it in the air—love, I mean—and she’s going very fast. She’s
got most of the symptoms—is twittery and cross, doesn’t eat, lies
awake, and mopes in corners. I caught her singing that song he gave
her, and once she said ‘John’, as you do, and then turned as red as a
poppy. Whatever shall we do?” said Jo, looking ready for any measures,
however violent.

“Nothing but wait. Let her alone, be kind and patient, and Father’s
coming will settle everything,” replied her mother.

“Here’s a note to you, Meg, all sealed up. How odd! Teddy never seals
mine,” said Jo next day, as she distributed the contents of the little
post office.

Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs, when a sound from Meg
made them look up to see her staring at her note with a frightened
face.

“My child, what is it?” cried her mother, running to her, while Jo
tried to take the paper which had done the mischief.

“It’s all a mistake, he didn’t send it. Oh, Jo, how could you do it?”
and Meg hid her face in her hands, crying as if her heart were quite
broken.

“Me! I’ve done nothing! What’s she talking about?” cried Jo,
bewildered.

Meg’s mild eyes kindled with anger as she pulled a crumpled note from
her pocket and threw it at Jo, saying reproachfully, “You wrote it, and
that bad boy helped you. How could you be so rude, so mean, and cruel
to us both?”

Jo hardly heard her, for she and her mother were reading the note,
which was written in a peculiar hand.

“My Dearest Margaret,

“I can no longer restrain my passion, and must know my fate before I
return. I dare not tell your parents yet, but I think they would
consent if they knew that we adored one another. Mr. Laurence will help
me to some good place, and then, my sweet girl, you will make me happy.
I implore you to say nothing to your family yet, but to send one word
of hope through Laurie to,

“Your devoted John.”

“Oh, the little villain! That’s the way he meant to pay me for keeping
my word to Mother. I’ll give him a hearty scolding and bring him over
to beg pardon,” cried Jo, burning to execute immediate justice. But her
mother held her back, saying, with a look she seldom wore...