“Don’t have any secrets, Jo. Tell it to Mother and keep out of trouble,
as I should have done,” said Meg warningly.

“Bless you, child! Mother told me.”

“That will do, Jo. I’ll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie. I
shall sift the matter to the bottom, and put a stop to such pranks at
once.”

Away ran Jo, and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke’s real feelings.
“Now, dear, what are your own? Do you love him enough to wait till he
can make a home for you, or will you keep yourself quite free for the
present?”

“I’ve been so scared and worried, I don’t want to have anything to do
with lovers for a long while, perhaps never,” answered Meg petulantly.
“If John doesn’t know anything about this nonsense, don’t tell him, and
make Jo and Laurie hold their tongues. I won’t be deceived and plagued
and made a fool of. It’s a shame!”

Seeing Meg’s usually gentle temper was roused and her pride hurt by
this mischievous joke, Mrs. March soothed her by promises of entire
silence and great discretion for the future. The instant Laurie’s step
was heard in the hall, Meg fled into the study, and Mrs. March received
the culprit alone. Jo had not told him why he was wanted, fearing he
wouldn’t come, but he knew the minute he saw Mrs. March’s face, and
stood twirling his hat with a guilty air which convicted him at once.
Jo was dismissed, but chose to march up and down the hall like a
sentinel, having some fear that the prisoner might bolt. The sound of
voices in the parlor rose and fell for half an hour, but what happened
during that interview the girls never knew.

When they were called in, Laurie was standing by their mother with such
a penitent face that Jo forgave him on the spot, but did not think it
wise to betray the fact. Meg received his humble apology, and was much
comforted by the assurance that Brooke knew nothing of the joke.

“I’ll never tell him to my dying day, wild horses shan’t drag it out of
me, so you’ll forgive me, Meg, and I’ll do anything to show how
out-and-out sorry I am,” he added, looking very much ashamed of
himself.

“I’ll try, but it was a very ungentlemanly thing to do, I didn’t think
you could be so sly and malicious, Laurie,” replied Meg, trying to hide
her maidenly confusion under a gravely reproachful air.

“It was altogether abominable, and I don’t deserve to be spoken to for
a month, but you will, though, won’t you?” And Laurie folded his hands
together with such and imploring gesture, as he spoke in his
irresistibly persuasive tone, that it was impossible to frown upon him
in spite of his scandalous behavior.