Meg pardoned him, and Mrs. March’s grave face relaxed, in spite of her
efforts to keep sober, when she heard him declare that he would atone
for his sins by all sorts of penances, and abase himself like a worm
before the injured damsel.

Jo stood aloof, meanwhile, trying to harden her heart against him, and
succeeding only in primming up her face into an expression of entire
disapprobation. Laurie looked at her once or twice, but as she showed
no sign of relenting, he felt injured, and turned his back on her till
the others were done with him, when he made her a low bow and walked
off without a word.

As soon as he had gone, she wished she had been more forgiving, and
when Meg and her mother went upstairs, she felt lonely and longed for
Teddy. After resisting for some time, she yielded to the impulse, and
armed with a book to return, went over to the big house.

“Is Mr. Laurence in?” asked Jo, of a housemaid, who was coming
downstairs.

“Yes, Miss, but I don’t believe he’s seeable just yet.”

“Why not? Is he ill?”

“La, no Miss, but he’s had a scene with Mr. Laurie, who is in one of
his tantrums about something, which vexes the old gentleman, so I
dursn’t go nigh him.”

“Where is Laurie?”

“Shut up in his room, and he won’t answer, though I’ve been a-tapping.
I don’t know what’s to become of the dinner, for it’s ready, and
there’s no one to eat it.”

“I’ll go and see what the matter is. I’m not afraid of either of them.”

Up went Jo, and knocked smartly on the door of Laurie’s little study.

“Stop that, or I’ll open the door and make you!” called out the young
gentleman in a threatening tone.

Jo immediately knocked again. The door flew open, and in she bounced
before Laurie could recover from his surprise. Seeing that he really
was out of temper, Jo, who knew how to manage him, assumed a contrite
expression, and going artistically down upon her knees, said meekly,
“Please forgive me for being so cross. I came to make it up, and can’t
go away till I have.”

“It’s all right. Get up, and don’t be a goose, Jo,” was the cavalier
reply to her petition.

“Thank you, I will. Could I ask what’s the matter? You don’t look
exactly easy in your mind.”

“I’ve been shaken, and I won’t bear it!” growled Laurie indignantly.

“Who did it?” demanded Jo.

“Grandfather. If it had been anyone else I’d have...” And the injured
youth finished his sentence by an energetic gesture of the right arm.

“That’s nothing. I often shake you, and you don’t mind,” said Jo
soothingly.

“Pooh! You’re a girl, and it’s fun, but I’ll allow no man to shake me!”

“I don’t think anyone would care to try it, if you looked as much like
a thundercloud as you do now. Why were you treated so?”