“Just because I wouldn’t say what your mother wanted me for. I’d
promised not to tell, and of course I wasn’t going to break my word.”

“Couldn’t you satisfy your grandpa in any other way?”

“No, he would have the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. I’d have told my part of the scrape, if I could without bringing
Meg in. As I couldn’t, I held my tongue, and bore the scolding till the
old gentleman collared me. Then I bolted, for fear I should forget
myself.”

“It wasn’t nice, but he’s sorry, I know, so go down and make up. I’ll
help you.”

“Hanged if I do! I’m not going to be lectured and pummelled by
everyone, just for a bit of a frolic. I was sorry about Meg, and begged
pardon like a man, but I won’t do it again, when I wasn’t in the
wrong.”

“He didn’t know that.”

“He ought to trust me, and not act as if I was a baby. It’s no use, Jo,
he’s got to learn that I’m able to take care of myself, and don’t need
anyone’s apron string to hold on by.”

“What pepper pots you are!” sighed Jo. “How do you mean to settle this
affair?”

“Well, he ought to beg pardon, and believe me when I say I can’t tell
him what the fuss’s about.”

“Bless you! He won’t do that.”

“I won’t go down till he does.”

“Now, Teddy, be sensible. Let it pass, and I’ll explain what I can. You
can’t stay here, so what’s the use of being melodramatic?”

“I don’t intend to stay here long, anyway. I’ll slip off and take a
journey somewhere, and when Grandpa misses me he’ll come round fast
enough.”

“I dare say, but you ought not to go and worry him.”

“Don’t preach. I’ll go to Washington and see Brooke. It’s gay there,
and I’ll enjoy myself after the troubles.”

“What fun you’d have! I wish I could run off too,” said Jo, forgetting
her part of mentor in lively visions of martial life at the capital.

“Come on, then! Why not? You go and surprise your father, and I’ll stir
up old Brooke. It would be a glorious joke. Let’s do it, Jo. We’ll
leave a letter saying we are all right, and trot off at once. I’ve got
money enough. It will do you good, and no harm, as you go to your
father.”

For a moment Jo looked as if she would agree, for wild as the plan was,
it just suited her. She was tired of care and confinement, longed for
change, and thoughts of her father blended temptingly with the novel
charms of camps and hospitals, liberty and fun. Her eyes kindled as
they turned wistfully toward the window, but they fell on the old house
opposite, and she shook her head with sorrowful decision.