“If I was a boy, we’d run away together, and have a capital time, but
as I’m a miserable girl, I must be proper and stop at home. Don’t tempt
me, Teddy, it’s a crazy plan.”

“That’s the fun of it,” began Laurie, who had got a willful fit on him
and was possessed to break out of bounds in some way.

“Hold your tongue!” cried Jo, covering her ears. “‘Prunes and prisms’
are my doom, and I may as well make up my mind to it. I came here to
moralize, not to hear things that make me skip to think of.”

“I know Meg would wet-blanket such a proposal, but I thought you had
more spirit,” began Laurie insinuatingly.

“Bad boy, be quiet! Sit down and think of your own sins, don’t go
making me add to mine. If I get your grandpa to apologize for the
shaking, will you give up running away?” asked Jo seriously.

“Yes, but you won’t do it,” answered Laurie, who wished to make up, but
felt that his outraged dignity must be appeased first.

“If I can manage the young one, I can the old one,” muttered Jo, as she
walked away, leaving Laurie bent over a railroad map with his head
propped up on both hands.

“Come in!” and Mr. Laurence’s gruff voice sounded gruffer than ever, as
Jo tapped at his door.

“It’s only me, Sir, come to return a book,” she said blandly, as she
entered.

“Want any more?” asked the old gentleman, looking grim and vexed, but
trying not to show it.

“Yes, please. I like old Sam so well, I think I’ll try the second
volume,” returned Jo, hoping to propitiate him by accepting a second
dose of Boswell’s Johnson, as he had recommended that lively work.

The shaggy eyebrows unbent a little as he rolled the steps toward the
shelf where the Johnsonian literature was placed. Jo skipped up, and
sitting on the top step, affected to be searching for her book, but was
really wondering how best to introduce the dangerous object of her
visit. Mr. Laurence seemed to suspect that something was brewing in her
mind, for after taking several brisk turns about the room, he faced
round on her, speaking so abruptly that Rasselas tumbled face downward
on the floor.

“What has that boy been about? Don’t try to shield him. I know he has
been in mischief by the way he acted when he came home. I can’t get a
word from him, and when I threatened to shake the truth out of him he
bolted upstairs and locked himself into his room.”

“He did wrong, but we forgave him, and all promised not to say a word
to anyone,” began Jo reluctantly.

“That won’t do. He shall not shelter himself behind a promise from you
softhearted girls. If he’s done anything amiss, he shall confess, beg
pardon, and be punished. Out with it, Jo. I won’t be kept in the dark.”