Mr. Laurence looked so alarming and spoke so sharply that Jo would have
gladly run away, if she could, but she was perched aloft on the steps,
and he stood at the foot, a lion in the path, so she had to stay and
brave it out.

“Indeed, Sir, I cannot tell. Mother forbade it. Laurie has confessed,
asked pardon, and been punished quite enough. We don’t keep silence to
shield him, but someone else, and it will make more trouble if you
interfere. Please don’t. It was partly my fault, but it’s all right
now. So let’s forget it, and talk about the _Rambler_ or something
pleasant.”

“Hang the _Rambler!_ Come down and give me your word that this
harum-scarum boy of mine hasn’t done anything ungrateful or
impertinent. If he has, after all your kindness to him, I’ll thrash him
with my own hands.”

The threat sounded awful, but did not alarm Jo, for she knew the
irascible old gentleman would never lift a finger against his grandson,
whatever he might say to the contrary. She obediently descended, and
made as light of the prank as she could without betraying Meg or
forgetting the truth.

“Hum... ha... well, if the boy held his tongue because he promised, and
not from obstinacy, I’ll forgive him. He’s a stubborn fellow and hard
to manage,” said Mr. Laurence, rubbing up his hair till it looked as if
he had been out in a gale, and smoothing the frown from his brow with
an air of relief.

“So am I, but a kind word will govern me when all the king’s horses and
all the king’s men couldn’t,” said Jo, trying to say a kind word for
her friend, who seemed to get out of one scrape only to fall into
another.

“You think I’m not kind to him, hey?” was the sharp answer.

“Oh, dear no, Sir. You are rather too kind sometimes, and then just a
trifle hasty when he tries your patience. Don’t you think you are?”

Jo was determined to have it out now, and tried to look quite placid,
though she quaked a little after her bold speech. To her great relief
and surprise, the old gentleman only threw his spectacles onto the
table with a rattle and exclaimed frankly, “You’re right, girl, I am! I
love the boy, but he tries my patience past bearing, and I know how it
will end, if we go on so.”

“I’ll tell you, he’ll run away.” Jo was sorry for that speech the
minute it was made. She meant to warn him that Laurie would not bear
much restraint, and hoped he would be more forebearing with the lad.

Mr. Laurence’s ruddy face changed suddenly, and he sat down, with a
troubled glance at the picture of a handsome man, which hung over his
table. It was Laurie’s father, who had run away in his youth, and
married against the imperious old man’s will. Jo fancied he remembered
and regretted the past, and she wished she had held her tongue.