“I keep turning over new leaves, and spoiling them, as I used to spoil
my copybooks, and I make so many beginnings there never will be an
end,” he said dolefully.

“Go and eat your dinner, you’ll feel better after it. Men always croak
when they are hungry,” and Jo whisked out at the front door after that.

“That’s a ‘label’ on my ‘sect’,” answered Laurie, quoting Amy, as he
went to partake of humble pie dutifully with his grandfather, who was
quite saintly in temper and overwhelmingly respectful in manner all the
rest of the day.

Everyone thought the matter ended and the little cloud blown over, but
the mischief was done, for though others forgot it, Meg remembered. She
never alluded to a certain person, but she thought of him a good deal,
dreamed dreams more than ever, and once Jo, rummaging her sister’s desk
for stamps, found a bit of paper scribbled over with the words, ‘Mrs.
John Brooke’, whereat she groaned tragically and cast it into the fire,
feeling that Laurie’s prank had hastened the evil day for her.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
PLEASANT MEADOWS

Like sunshine after a storm were the peaceful weeks which followed. The
invalids improved rapidly, and Mr. March began to talk of returning
early in the new year. Beth was soon able to lie on the study sofa all
day, amusing herself with the well-beloved cats at first, and in time
with doll’s sewing, which had fallen sadly behind-hand. Her once active
limbs were so stiff and feeble that Jo took her for a daily airing
about the house in her strong arms. Meg cheerfully blackened and burned
her white hands cooking delicate messes for ‘the dear’, while Amy, a
loyal slave of the ring, celebrated her return by giving away as many
of her treasures as she could prevail on her sisters to accept.

As Christmas approached, the usual mysteries began to haunt the house,
and Jo frequently convulsed the family by proposing utterly impossible
or magnificently absurd ceremonies, in honor of this unusually merry
Christmas. Laurie was equally impracticable, and would have had
bonfires, skyrockets, and triumphal arches, if he had had his own way.
After many skirmishes and snubbings, the ambitious pair were considered
effectually quenched and went about with forlorn faces, which were
rather belied by explosions of laughter when the two got together.