“Don’t go. Are you afraid of me, Margaret?” and Mr. Brooke looked so
hurt that Meg thought she must have done something very rude. She
blushed up to the little curls on her forehead, for he had never called
her Margaret before, and she was surprised to find how natural and
sweet it seemed to hear him say it. Anxious to appear friendly and at
her ease, she put out her hand with a confiding gesture, and said
gratefully...

“How can I be afraid when you have been so kind to Father? I only wish
I could thank you for it.”

“Shall I tell you how?” asked Mr. Brooke, holding the small hand fast
in both his own, and looking down at Meg with so much love in the brown
eyes that her heart began to flutter, and she both longed to run away
and to stop and listen.

“Oh no, please don’t, I’d rather not,” she said, trying to withdraw her
hand, and looking frightened in spite of her denial.

“I won’t trouble you. I only want to know if you care for me a little,
Meg. I love you so much, dear,” added Mr. Brooke tenderly.

This was the moment for the calm, proper speech, but Meg didn’t make
it. She forgot every word of it, hung her head, and answered, “I don’t
know,” so softly that John had to stoop down to catch the foolish
little reply.

He seemed to think it was worth the trouble, for he smiled to himself
as if quite satisfied, pressed the plump hand gratefully, and said in
his most persuasive tone, “Will you try and find out? I want to know so
much, for I can’t go to work with any heart until I learn whether I am
to have my reward in the end or not.”

“I’m too young,” faltered Meg, wondering why she was so fluttered, yet
rather enjoying it.

“I’ll wait, and in the meantime, you could be learning to like me.
Would it be a very hard lesson, dear?”

“Not if I chose to learn it, but. . .”

“Please choose to learn, Meg. I love to teach, and this is easier than
German,” broke in John, getting possession of the other hand, so that
she had no way of hiding her face as he bent to look into it.

His tone was properly beseeching, but stealing a shy look at him, Meg
saw that his eyes were merry as well as tender, and that he wore the
satisfied smile of one who had no doubt of his success. This nettled
her. Annie Moffat’s foolish lessons in coquetry came into her mind, and
the love of power, which sleeps in the bosoms of the best of little
women, woke up all of a sudden and took possession of her. She felt
excited and strange, and not knowing what else to do, followed a
capricious impulse, and, withdrawing her hands, said petulantly, “I
don’t choose. Please go away and let me be!”