Now Aunt March possessed in perfection the art of rousing the spirit of
opposition in the gentlest people, and enjoyed doing it. The best of us
have a spice of perversity in us, especially when we are young and in
love. If Aunt March had begged Meg to accept John Brooke, she would
probably have declared she couldn’t think of it, but as she was
preemptorily ordered not to like him, she immediately made up her mind
that she would. Inclination as well as perversity made the decision
easy, and being already much excited, Meg opposed the old lady with
unusual spirit.

“I shall marry whom I please, Aunt March, and you can leave your money
to anyone you like,” she said, nodding her head with a resolute air.

“Highty-tighty! Is that the way you take my advice, Miss? You’ll be
sorry for it by-and-by, when you’ve tried love in a cottage and found
it a failure.”

“It can’t be a worse one than some people find in big houses,” retorted
Meg.

Aunt March put on her glasses and took a look at the girl, for she did
not know her in this new mood. Meg hardly knew herself, she felt so
brave and independent, so glad to defend John and assert her right to
love him, if she liked. Aunt March saw that she had begun wrong, and
after a little pause, made a fresh start, saying as mildly as she
could, “Now, Meg, my dear, be reasonable and take my advice. I mean it
kindly, and don’t want you to spoil your whole life by making a mistake
at the beginning. You ought to marry well and help your family. It’s
your duty to make a rich match and it ought to be impressed upon you.”

“Father and Mother don’t think so. They like John though he is poor.”

“Your parents, my dear, have no more worldly wisdom than a pair of
babies.”

“I’m glad of it,” cried Meg stoutly.

Aunt March took no notice, but went on with her lecture. “This Rook is
poor and hasn’t got any rich relations, has he?”

“No, but he has many warm friends.”

“You can’t live on friends, try it and see how cool they’ll grow. He
hasn’t any business, has he?”

“Not yet. Mr. Laurence is going to help him.”

“That won’t last long. James Laurence is a crotchety old fellow and not
to be depended on. So you intend to marry a man without money,
position, or business, and go on working harder than you do now, when
you might be comfortable all your days by minding me and doing better?
I thought you had more sense, Meg.”