“I couldn’t do better if I waited half my life! John is good and wise,
he’s got heaps of talent, he’s willing to work and sure to get on, he’s
so energetic and brave. Everyone likes and respects him, and I’m proud
to think he cares for me, though I’m so poor and young and silly,” said
Meg, looking prettier than ever in her earnestness.

“He knows you have got rich relations, child. That’s the secret of his
liking, I suspect.”

“Aunt March, how dare you say such a thing? John is above such
meanness, and I won’t listen to you a minute if you talk so,” cried Meg
indignantly, forgetting everything but the injustice of the old lady’s
suspicions. “My John wouldn’t marry for money, any more than I would.
We are willing to work and we mean to wait. I’m not afraid of being
poor, for I’ve been happy so far, and I know I shall be with him
because he loves me, and I...”

Meg stopped there, remembering all of a sudden that she hadn’t made up
her mind, that she had told ‘her John’ to go away, and that he might be
overhearing her inconsistent remarks.

Aunt March was very angry, for she had set her heart on having her
pretty niece make a fine match, and something in the girl’s happy young
face made the lonely old woman feel both sad and sour.

“Well, I wash my hands of the whole affair! You are a willful child,
and you’ve lost more than you know by this piece of folly. No, I won’t
stop. I’m disappointed in you, and haven’t spirits to see your father
now. Don’t expect anything from me when you are married. Your Mr.
Brooke’s friends must take care of you. I’m done with you forever.”

And slamming the door in Meg’s face, Aunt March drove off in high
dudgeon. She seemed to take all the girl’s courage with her, for when
left alone, Meg stood for a moment, undecided whether to laugh or cry.
Before she could make up her mind, she was taken possession of by Mr.
Brooke, who said all in one breath, “I couldn’t help hearing, Meg.
Thank you for defending me, and Aunt March for proving that you do care
for me a little bit.”

“I didn’t know how much till she abused you,” began Meg.

“And I needn’t go away, but may stay and be happy, may I, dear?”

Here was another fine chance to make the crushing speech and the
stately exit, but Meg never thought of doing either, and disgraced
herself forever in Jo’s eyes by meekly whispering, “Yes, John,” and
hiding her face on Mr. Brooke’s waistcoat.

Fifteen minutes after Aunt March’s departure, Jo came softly
downstairs, paused an instant at the parlor door, and hearing no sound
within, nodded and smiled with a satisfied expression, saying to
herself, “She has seen him away as we planned, and that affair is
settled. I’ll go and hear the fun, and have a good laugh over it.”