“Well, now, don’t be dismal, there’s a good fellow. It’s all right you
see. Meg is happy, Brooke will fly round and get settled immediately,
Grandpa will attend to him, and it will be very jolly to see Meg in her
own little house. We’ll have capital times after she is gone, for I
shall be through college before long, and then we’ll go abroad on some
nice trip or other. Wouldn’t that console you?”

“I rather think it would, but there’s no knowing what may happen in
three years,” said Jo thoughtfully.

“That’s true. Don’t you wish you could take a look forward and see
where we shall all be then? I do,” returned Laurie.

“I think not, for I might see something sad, and everyone looks so
happy now, I don’t believe they could be much improved.” And Jo’s eyes
went slowly round the room, brightening as they looked, for the
prospect was a pleasant one.

Father and Mother sat together, quietly reliving the first chapter of
the romance which for them began some twenty years ago. Amy was drawing
the lovers, who sat apart in a beautiful world of their own, the light
of which touched their faces with a grace the little artist could not
copy. Beth lay on her sofa, talking cheerily with her old friend, who
held her little hand as if he felt that it possessed the power to lead
him along the peaceful way she walked. Jo lounged in her favorite low
seat, with the grave quiet look which best became her, and Laurie,
leaning on the back of her chair, his chin on a level with her curly
head, smiled with his friendliest aspect, and nodded at her in the long
glass which reflected them both.

So the curtain falls upon Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy. Whether it ever rises
again, depends upon the reception given the first act of the domestic
drama called _Little Women_.

PART 2

In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg’s wedding...

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
GOSSIP

In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg’s wedding with free
minds, it will be well to begin with a little gossip about the Marches.
And here let me premise that if any of the elders think there is too
much ‘lovering’ in the story, as I fear they may (I’m not afraid the
young folks will make that objection), I can only say with Mrs. March,
“What can you expect when I have four gay girls in the house, and a
dashing young neighbor over the way?”

The three years that have passed have brought but few changes to the
quiet family. The war is over, and Mr. March safely at home, busy with
his books and the small parish which found in him a minister by nature
as by grace, a quiet, studious man, rich in the wisdom that is better
than learning, the charity which calls all mankind ‘brother’, the piety
that blossoms into character, making it august and lovely.