People who hire all these things done for them never know what they
lose, for the homeliest tasks get beautified if loving hands do them,
and Meg found so many proofs of this that everything in her small nest,
from the kitchen roller to the silver vase on her parlor table, was
eloquent of home love and tender forethought.

What happy times they had planning together, what solemn shopping
excursions, what funny mistakes they made, and what shouts of laughter
arose over Laurie’s ridiculous bargains. In his love of jokes, this
young gentleman, though nearly through college, was a much of a boy as
ever. His last whim had been to bring with him on his weekly visits
some new, useful, and ingenious article for the young housekeeper. Now
a bag of remarkable clothespins, next, a wonderful nutmeg grater which
fell to pieces at the first trial, a knife cleaner that spoiled all the
knives, or a sweeper that picked the nap neatly off the carpet and left
the dirt, labor-saving soap that took the skin off one’s hands,
infallible cements which stuck firmly to nothing but the fingers of the
deluded buyer, and every kind of tinware, from a toy savings bank for
odd pennies, to a wonderful boiler which would wash articles in its own
steam with every prospect of exploding in the process.

In vain Meg begged him to stop. John laughed at him, and Jo called him
‘Mr. Toodles’. He was possessed with a mania for patronizing Yankee
ingenuity, and seeing his friends fitly furnished forth. So each week
beheld some fresh absurdity.

Everything was done at last, even to Amy’s arranging different colored
soaps to match the different colored rooms, and Beth’s setting the
table for the first meal.

“Are you satisfied? Does it seem like home, and do you feel as if you
should be happy here?” asked Mrs. March, as she and her daughter went
through the new kingdom arm in arm, for just then they seemed to cling
together more tenderly than ever.

“Yes, Mother, perfectly satisfied, thanks to you all, and so happy that
I can’t talk about it,” with a look that was far better than words.

“If she only had a servant or two it would be all right,” said Amy,
coming out of the parlor, where she had been trying to decide whether
the bronze Mercury looked best on the whatnot or the mantlepiece.

“Mother and I have talked that over, and I have made up my mind to try
her way first. There will be so little to do that with Lotty to run my
errands and help me here and there, I shall only have enough work to
keep me from getting lazy or homesick,” answered Meg tranquilly.

“Sallie Moffat has four,” began Amy.

“If Meg had four, the house wouldn’t hold them, and master and missis
would have to camp in the garden,” broke in Jo, who, enveloped in a big
blue pinafore, was giving the last polish to the door handles.