“Sallie isn’t a poor man’s wife, and many maids are in keeping with her
fine establishment. Meg and John begin humbly, but I have a feeling
that there will be quite as much happiness in the little house as in
the big one. It’s a great mistake for young girls like Meg to leave
themselves nothing to do but dress, give orders, and gossip. When I was
first married, I used to long for my new clothes to wear out or get
torn, so that I might have the pleasure of mending them, for I got
heartily sick of doing fancywork and tending my pocket handkerchief.”

“Why didn’t you go into the kitchen and make messes, as Sallie says she
does to amuse herself, though they never turn out well and the servants
laugh at her,” said Meg.

“I did after a while, not to ‘mess’ but to learn of Hannah how things
should be done, that my servants need not laugh at me. It was play
then, but there came a time when I was truly grateful that I not only
possessed the will but the power to cook wholesome food for my little
girls, and help myself when I could no longer afford to hire help. You
begin at the other end, Meg, dear, but the lessons you learn now will
be of use to you by-and-by when John is a richer man, for the mistress
of a house, however splendid, should know how work ought to be done, if
she wishes to be well and honestly served.”

“Yes, Mother, I’m sure of that,” said Meg, listening respectfully to
the little lecture, for the best of women will hold forth upon the all
absorbing subject of house keeping. “Do you know I like this room most
of all in my baby house,” added Meg, a minute after, as they went
upstairs and she looked into her well-stored linen closet.

Beth was there, laying the snowy piles smoothly on the shelves and
exulting over the goodly array. All three laughed as Meg spoke, for
that linen closet was a joke. You see, having said that if Meg married
‘that Brooke’ she shouldn’t have a cent of her money, Aunt March was
rather in a quandary when time had appeased her wrath and made her
repent her vow. She never broke her word, and was much exercised in her
mind how to get round it, and at last devised a plan whereby she could
satisfy herself. Mrs. Carrol, Florence’s mamma, was ordered to buy,
have made, and marked a generous supply of house and table linen, and
send it as her present, all of which was faithfully done, but the
secret leaked out, and was greatly enjoyed by the family, for Aunt
March tried to look utterly unconscious, and insisted that she could
give nothing but the old-fashioned pearls long promised to the first
bride.