“That’s a housewifely taste which I am glad to see. I had a young
friend who set up housekeeping with six sheets, but she had finger
bowls for company and that satisfied her,” said Mrs. March, patting the
damask tablecloths, with a truly feminine appreciation of their
fineness.

“I haven’t a single finger bowl, but this is a setout that will last me
all my days, Hannah says.” And Meg looked quite contented, as well she
might.

A tall, broad-shouldered young fellow, with a cropped head, a felt
basin of a hat, and a flyaway coat, came tramping down the road at a
great pace, walked over the low fence without stopping to open the
gate, straight up to Mrs. March, with both hands out and a hearty...

“Here I am, Mother! Yes, it’s all right.”

The last words were in answer to the look the elder lady gave him, a
kindly questioning look which the handsome eyes met so frankly that the
little ceremony closed, as usual, with a motherly kiss.

“For Mrs. John Brooke, with the maker’s congratulations and
compliments. Bless you, Beth! What a refreshing spectacle you are, Jo.
Amy, you are getting altogether too handsome for a single lady.”

As Laurie spoke, he delivered a brown paper parcel to Meg, pulled
Beth’s hair ribbon, stared at Jo’s big pinafore, and fell into an
attitude of mock rapture before Amy, then shook hands all round, and
everyone began to talk.

“Where is John?” asked Meg anxiously.

“Stopped to get the license for tomorrow, ma’am.”

“Which side won the last match, Teddy?” inquired Jo, who persisted in
feeling an interest in manly sports despite her nineteen years.

“Ours, of course. Wish you’d been there to see.”

“How is the lovely Miss Randal?” asked Amy with a significant smile.

“More cruel than ever. Don’t you see how I’m pining away?” and Laurie
gave his broad chest a sounding slap and heaved a melodramatic sigh.

“What’s the last joke? Undo the bundle and see, Meg,” said Beth, eying
the knobby parcel with curiosity.

“It’s a useful thing to have in the house in case of fire or thieves,”
observed Laurie, as a watchman’s rattle appeared, amid the laughter of
the girls.

“Any time when John is away and you get frightened, Mrs. Meg, just
swing that out of the front window, and it will rouse the neighborhood
in a jiffy. Nice thing, isn’t it?” and Laurie gave them a sample of its
powers that made them cover up their ears.

“There’s gratitude for you! And speaking of gratitude reminds me to
mention that you may thank Hannah for saving your wedding cake from
destruction. I saw it going into your house as I came by, and if she
hadn’t defended it manfully I’d have had a pick at it, for it looked
like a remarkably plummy one.”

“I wonder if you will ever grow up, Laurie,” said Meg in a matronly
tone.