“I’m doing my best, ma’am, but can’t get much higher, I’m afraid, as
six feet is about all men can do in these degenerate days,” responded
the young gentleman, whose head was about level with the little
chandelier.

“I suppose it would be profanation to eat anything in this
spick-and-span bower, so as I’m tremendously hungry, I propose an
adjournment,” he added presently.

“Mother and I are going to wait for John. There are some last things to
settle,” said Meg, bustling away.

“Beth and I are going over to Kitty Bryant’s to get more flowers for
tomorrow,” added Amy, tying a picturesque hat over her picturesque
curls, and enjoying the effect as much as anybody.

“Come, Jo, don’t desert a fellow. I’m in such a state of exhaustion I
can’t get home without help. Don’t take off your apron, whatever you
do, it’s peculiarly becoming,” said Laurie, as Jo bestowed his especial
aversion in her capacious pocket and offered her arm to support his
feeble steps.

“Now, Teddy, I want to talk seriously to you about tomorrow,” began Jo,
as they strolled away together. “You must promise to behave well, and
not cut up any pranks, and spoil our plans.”

“Not a prank.”

“And don’t say funny things when we ought to be sober.”

“I never do. You are the one for that.”

“And I implore you not to look at me during the ceremony. I shall
certainly laugh if you do.”

“You won’t see me, you’ll be crying so hard that the thick fog round
you will obscure the prospect.”

“I never cry unless for some great affliction.”

“Such as fellows going to college, hey?” cut in Laurie, with suggestive
laugh.

“Don’t be a peacock. I only moaned a trifle to keep the girls company.”

“Exactly. I say, Jo, how is Grandpa this week? Pretty amiable?”

“Very. Why, have you got into a scrape and want to know how he’ll take
it?” asked Jo rather sharply.

“Now, Jo, do you think I’d look your mother in the face and say ‘All
right’, if it wasn’t?” and Laurie stopped short, with an injured air.

“No, I don’t.”

“Then don’t go and be suspicious. I only want some money,” said Laurie,
walking on again, appeased by her hearty tone.

“You spend a great deal, Teddy.”

“Bless you, I don’t spend it, it spends itself somehow, and is gone
before I know it.”

“You are so generous and kind-hearted that you let people borrow, and
can’t say ‘No’ to anyone. We heard about Henshaw and all you did for
him. If you always spent money in that way, no one would blame you,”
said Jo warmly.

“Oh, he made a mountain out of a molehill. You wouldn’t have me let
that fine fellow work himself to death just for want of a little help,
when he is worth a dozen of us lazy chaps, would you?”