“Of course not, but I don’t see the use of your having seventeen
waistcoats, endless neckties, and a new hat every time you come home. I
thought you’d got over the dandy period, but every now and then it
breaks out in a new spot. Just now it’s the fashion to be hideous, to
make your head look like a scrubbing brush, wear a strait jacket,
orange gloves, and clumping square-toed boots. If it was cheap
ugliness, I’d say nothing, but it costs as much as the other, and I
don’t get any satisfaction out of it.”

Laurie threw back his head, and laughed so heartily at this attack,
that the felt hat fell off, and Jo walked on it, which insult only
afforded him an opportunity for expatiating on the advantages of a
rough-and-ready costume, as he folded up the maltreated hat, and
stuffed it into his pocket.

“Don’t lecture any more, there’s a good soul! I have enough all through
the week, and like to enjoy myself when I come home. I’ll get myself up
regardless of expense tomorrow and be a satisfaction to my friends.”

“I’ll leave you in peace if you’ll only let your hair grow. I’m not
aristocratic, but I do object to being seen with a person who looks
like a young prize fighter,” observed Jo severely.

“This unassuming style promotes study, that’s why we adopt it,”
returned Laurie, who certainly could not be accused of vanity, having
voluntarily sacrificed a handsome curly crop to the demand for
quarter-inch-long stubble.

“By the way, Jo, I think that little Parker is really getting desperate
about Amy. He talks of her constantly, writes poetry, and moons about
in a most suspicious manner. He’d better nip his little passion in the
bud, hadn’t he?” added Laurie, in a confidential, elder brotherly tone,
after a minute’s silence.

“Of course he had. We don’t want any more marrying in this family for
years to come. Mercy on us, what are the children thinking of?” and Jo
looked as much scandalized as if Amy and little Parker were not yet in
their teens.

“It’s a fast age, and I don’t know what we are coming to, ma’am. You
are a mere infant, but you’ll go next, Jo, and we’ll be left
lamenting,” said Laurie, shaking his head over the degeneracy of the
times.

“Don’t be alarmed. I’m not one of the agreeable sort. Nobody will want
me, and it’s a mercy, for there should always be one old maid in a
family.”

“You won’t give anyone a chance,” said Laurie, with a sidelong glance
and a little more color than before in his sunburned face. “You won’t
Mrs. Gummidge did her sweetheart, throw cold water over him, and get so
thorny no one dares touch or look at you.”