“I don’t like that sort of thing. I’m too busy to be worried with
nonsense, and I think it’s dreadful to break up families so. Now don’t
say any more about it. Meg’s wedding has turned all our heads, and we
talk of nothing but lovers and such absurdities. I don’t wish to get
cross, so let’s change the subject;” and Jo looked quite ready to fling
cold water on the slightest provocation.

Whatever his feelings might have been, Laurie found a vent for them in
a long low whistle and the fearful prediction as they parted at the
gate, “Mark my words, Jo, you’ll go next.”

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
THE FIRST WEDDING

The June roses over the porch were awake bright and early on that
morning, rejoicing with all their hearts in the cloudless sunshine,
like friendly little neighbors, as they were. Quite flushed with
excitement were their ruddy faces, as they swung in the wind,
whispering to one another what they had seen, for some peeped in at the
dining room windows where the feast was spread, some climbed up to nod
and smile at the sisters as they dressed the bride, others waved a
welcome to those who came and went on various errands in garden, porch,
and hall, and all, from the rosiest full-blown flower to the palest
baby bud, offered their tribute of beauty and fragrance to the gentle
mistress who had loved and tended them so long.

Meg looked very like a rose herself, for all that was best and sweetest
in heart and soul seemed to bloom into her face that day, making it
fair and tender, with a charm more beautiful than beauty. Neither silk,
lace, nor orange flowers would she have. “I don’t want a fashionable
wedding, but only those about me whom I love, and to them I wish to
look and be my familiar self.”

So she made her wedding gown herself, sewing into it the tender hopes
and innocent romances of a girlish heart. Her sisters braided up her
pretty hair, and the only ornaments she wore were the lilies of the
valley, which ‘her John’ liked best of all the flowers that grew.

“You do look just like our own dear Meg, only so very sweet and lovely
that I should hug you if it wouldn’t crumple your dress,” cried Amy,
surveying her with delight when all was done.

“Then I am satisfied. But please hug and kiss me, everyone, and don’t
mind my dress. I want a great many crumples of this sort put into it
today,” and Meg opened her arms to her sisters, who clung about her
with April faces for a minute, feeling that the new love had not
changed the old.