“Upon my word, here’s a state of things!” cried the old lady, taking
the seat of honor prepared for her, and settling the folds of her
lavender moire with a great rustle. “You oughtn’t to be seen till the
last minute, child.”

“I’m not a show, Aunty, and no one is coming to stare at me, to
criticize my dress, or count the cost of my luncheon. I’m too happy to
care what anyone says or thinks, and I’m going to have my little
wedding just as I like it. John, dear, here’s your hammer.” And away
went Meg to help ‘that man’ in his highly improper employment.

Mr. Brooke didn’t even say, “Thank you,” but as he stooped for the
unromantic tool, he kissed his little bride behind the folding door,
with a look that made Aunt March whisk out her pocket handkerchief with
a sudden dew in her sharp old eyes.

A crash, a cry, and a laugh from Laurie, accompanied by the indecorous
exclamation, “Jupiter Ammon! Jo’s upset the cake again!” caused a
momentary flurry, which was hardly over when a flock of cousins
arrived, and ‘the party came in’, as Beth used to say when a child.

“Don’t let that young giant come near me, he worries me worse than
mosquitoes,” whispered the old lady to Amy, as the rooms filled and
Laurie’s black head towered above the rest.

“He has promised to be very good today, and he can be perfectly elegant
if he likes,” returned Amy, and gliding away to warn Hercules to beware
of the dragon, which warning caused him to haunt the old lady with a
devotion that nearly distracted her.

There was no bridal procession, but a sudden silence fell upon the room
as Mr. March and the young couple took their places under the green
arch. Mother and sisters gathered close, as if loath to give Meg up.
The fatherly voice broke more than once, which only seemed to make the
service more beautiful and solemn. The bridegroom’s hand trembled
visibly, and no one heard his replies. But Meg looked straight up in
her husband’s eyes, and said, “I will!” with such tender trust in her
own face and voice that her mother’s heart rejoiced and Aunt March
sniffed audibly.

Jo did not cry, though she was very near it once, and was only saved
from a demonstration by the consciousness that Laurie was staring
fixedly at her, with a comical mixture of merriment and emotion in his
wicked black eyes. Beth kept her face hidden on her mother’s shoulder,
but Amy stood like a graceful statue, with a most becoming ray of
sunshine touching her white forehead and the flower in her hair.