“Why in the world should you spend your money, worry your family, and
turn the house upside down for a parcel of girls who don’t care a
sixpence for you? I thought you had too much pride and sense to truckle
to any mortal woman just because she wears French boots and rides in a
coupe,” said Jo, who, being called from the tragic climax of her novel,
was not in the best mood for social enterprises.

“I don’t truckle, and I hate being patronized as much as you do!”
returned Amy indignantly, for the two still jangled when such questions
arose. “The girls do care for me, and I for them, and there’s a great
deal of kindness and sense and talent among them, in spite of what you
call fashionable nonsense. You don’t care to make people like you, to
go into good society, and cultivate your manners and tastes. I do, and
I mean to make the most of every chance that comes. You can go through
the world with your elbows out and your nose in the air, and call it
independence, if you like. That’s not my way.”

When Amy had whetted her tongue and freed her mind she usually got the
best of it, for she seldom failed to have common sense on her side,
while Jo carried her love of liberty and hate of conventionalities to
such an unlimited extent that she naturally found herself worsted in an
argument. Amy’s definition of Jo’s idea of independence was such a good
hit that both burst out laughing, and the discussion took a more
amiable turn. Much against her will, Jo at length consented to
sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy, and help her sister through what she
regarded as ‘a nonsensical business’.

The invitations were sent, nearly all accepted, and the following
Monday was set apart for the grand event. Hannah was out of humor
because her week’s work was deranged, and prophesied that “ef the
washin’ and ironin’ warn’t done reg’lar, nothin’ would go well
anywheres”. This hitch in the mainspring of the domestic machinery had
a bad effect upon the whole concern, but Amy’s motto was ‘Nil
desperandum’, and having made up her mind what to do, she proceeded to
do it in spite of all obstacles. To begin with, Hannah’s cooking didn’t
turn out well. The chicken was tough, the tongue too salty, and the
chocolate wouldn’t froth properly. Then the cake and ice cost more than
Amy expected, so did the wagon, and various other expenses, which
seemed trifling at the outset, counted up rather alarmingly afterward.
Beth got a cold and took to her bed. Meg had an unusual number of
callers to keep her at home, and Jo was in such a divided state of mind
that her breakages, accidents, and mistakes were uncommonly numerous,
serious, and trying.