If it was not fair on Monday, the young ladies were to come on Tuesday,
an arrangement which aggravated Jo and Hannah to the last degree. On
Monday morning the weather was in that undecided state which is more
exasperating than a steady pour. It drizzled a little, shone a little,
blew a little, and didn’t make up its mind till it was too late for
anyone else to make up theirs. Amy was up at dawn, hustling people out
of their beds and through their breakfasts, that the house might be got
in order. The parlor struck her as looking uncommonly shabby, but
without stopping to sigh for what she had not, she skillfully made the
best of what she had, arranging chairs over the worn places in the
carpet, covering stains on the walls with homemade statuary, which gave
an artistic air to the room, as did the lovely vases of flowers Jo
scattered about.

The lunch looked charming, and as she surveyed it, she sincerely hoped
it would taste well, and that the borrowed glass, china, and silver
would get safely home again. The carriages were promised, Meg and
Mother were all ready to do the honors, Beth was able to help Hannah
behind the scenes, Jo had engaged to be as lively and amiable as an
absent mind, and aching head, and a very decided disapproval of
everybody and everything would allow, and as she wearily dressed, Amy
cheered herself with anticipations of the happy moment when, lunch
safely over, she should drive away with her friends for an afternoon of
artistic delights, for the ‘cherry bounce’ and the broken bridge were
her strong points.

Then came the hours of suspense, during which she vibrated from parlor
to porch, while public opinion varied like the weathercock. A smart
shower at eleven had evidently quenched the enthusiasm of the young
ladies who were to arrive at twelve, for nobody came, and at two the
exhausted family sat down in a blaze of sunshine to consume the
perishable portions of the feast, that nothing might be lost.

“No doubt about the weather today, they will certainly come, so we must
fly round and be ready for them,” said Amy, as the sun woke her next
morning. She spoke briskly, but in her secret soul she wished she had
said nothing about Tuesday, for her interest like her cake was getting
a little stale.

“I can’t get any lobsters, so you will have to do without salad today,”
said Mr. March, coming in half an hour later, with an expression of
placid despair.

“Use the chicken then, the toughness won’t matter in a salad,” advised
his wife.

“Hannah left it on the kitchen table a minute, and the kittens got at
it. I’m very sorry, Amy,” added Beth, who was still a patroness of
cats.

“Then I must have a lobster, for tongue alone won’t do,” said Amy
decidedly.

“Shall I rush into town and demand one?” asked Jo, with the magnanimity
of a martyr.