She did not mention this meeting at home (though she discovered that,
thanks to the upset, her new dress was much damaged by the rivulets of
dressing that meandered down the skirt), but went through with the
preparations which now seemed more irksome than before, and at twelve
o’clock all was ready again. Feeling that the neighbors were interested
in her movements, she wished to efface the memory of yesterday’s
failure by a grand success today, so she ordered the ‘cherry bounce’,
and drove away in state to meet and escort her guests to the banquet.

“There’s the rumble, they’re coming! I’ll go onto the porch and meet
them. It looks hospitable, and I want the poor child to have a good
time after all her trouble,” said Mrs. March, suiting the action to the
word. But after one glance, she retired, with an indescribable
expression, for looking quite lost in the big carriage, sat Amy and one
young lady.

“Run, Beth, and help Hannah clear half the things off the table. It
will be too absurd to put a luncheon for twelve before a single girl,”
cried Jo, hurrying away to the lower regions, too excited to stop even
for a laugh.

In came Amy, quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one guest who
had kept her promise. The rest of the family, being of a dramatic turn,
played their parts equally well, and Miss Eliott found them a most
hilarious set, for it was impossible to control entirely the merriment
which possessed them. The remodeled lunch being gaily partaken of, the
studio and garden visited, and art discussed with enthusiasm, Amy
ordered a buggy (alas for the elegant cherry-bounce), and drove her
friend quietly about the neighborhood till sunset, when ‘the party went
out’.

As she came walking in, looking very tired but as composed as ever, she
observed that every vestige of the unfortunate fete had disappeared,
except a suspicious pucker about the corners of Jo’s mouth.

“You’ve had a loverly afternoon for your drive, dear,” said her mother,
as respectfully as if the whole twelve had come.

“Miss Eliott is a very sweet girl, and seemed to enjoy herself, I
thought,” observed Beth, with unusual warmth.

“Could you spare me some of your cake? I really need some, I have so
much company, and I can’t make such delicious stuff as yours,” asked
Meg soberly.

“Take it all. I’m the only one here who likes sweet things, and it will
mold before I can dispose of it,” answered Amy, thinking with a sigh of
the generous store she had laid in for such an end as this.

“It’s a pity Laurie isn’t here to help us,” began Jo, as they sat down
to ice cream and salad for the second time in two days.