They were early, and while Miss Crocker set the heel of her stocking,
Jo amused herself by examining the faces of the people who occupied the
seat with them. On her left were two matrons, with massive foreheads
and bonnets to match, discussing Women’s Rights and making tatting.
Beyond sat a pair of humble lovers, artlessly holding each other by the
hand, a somber spinster eating peppermints out of a paper bag, and an
old gentleman taking his preparatory nap behind a yellow bandanna. On
her right, her only neighbor was a studious looking lad absorbed in a
newspaper.

It was a pictorial sheet, and Jo examined the work of art nearest her,
idly wondering what fortuitous concatenation of circumstances needed
the melodramatic illustration of an Indian in full war costume,
tumbling over a precipice with a wolf at his throat, while two
infuriated young gentlemen, with unnaturally small feet and big eyes,
were stabbing each other close by, and a disheveled female was flying
away in the background with her mouth wide open. Pausing to turn a
page, the lad saw her looking and, with boyish good nature offered half
his paper, saying bluntly, “want to read it? That’s a first-rate
story.”

Jo accepted it with a smile, for she had never outgrown her liking for
lads, and soon found herself involved in the usual labyrinth of love,
mystery, and murder, for the story belonged to that class of light
literature in which the passions have a holiday, and when the author’s
invention fails, a grand catastrophe clears the stage of one half the
dramatis personae, leaving the other half to exult over their downfall.

“Prime, isn’t it?” asked the boy, as her eye went down the last
paragraph of her portion.

“I think you and I could do as well as that if we tried,” returned Jo,
amused at his admiration of the trash.

“I should think I was a pretty lucky chap if I could. She makes a good
living out of such stories, they say.” and he pointed to the name of
Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. Northbury, under the title of the tale.

“Do you know her?” asked Jo, with sudden interest.

“No, but I read all her pieces, and I know a fellow who works in the
office where this paper is printed.”

“Do you say she makes a good living out of stories like this?” and Jo
looked more respectfully at the agitated group and thickly sprinkled
exclamation points that adorned the page.

“Guess she does! She knows just what folks like, and gets paid well for
writing it.”