“You can do better than this, Jo. Aim at the highest, and never mind
the money.”

“I think the money is the best part of it. What will you do with such a
fortune?” asked Amy, regarding the magic slip of paper with a
reverential eye.

“Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two,” answered Jo
promptly.

To the seaside they went, after much discussion, and though Beth didn’t
come home as plump and rosy as could be desired, she was much better,
while Mrs. March declared she felt ten years younger. So Jo was
satisfied with the investment of her prize money, and fell to work with
a cheery spirit, bent on earning more of those delightful checks. She
did earn several that year, and began to feel herself a power in the
house, for by the magic of a pen, her ‘rubbish’ turned into comforts
for them all. The Duke’s Daughter paid the butcher’s bill, A Phantom
Hand put down a new carpet, and the Curse of the Coventrys proved the
blessing of the Marches in the way of groceries and gowns.

Wealth is certainly a most desirable thing, but poverty has its sunny
side, and one of the sweet uses of adversity is the genuine
satisfaction which comes from hearty work of head or hand, and to the
inspiration of necessity, we owe half the wise, beautiful, and useful
blessings of the world. Jo enjoyed a taste of this satisfaction, and
ceased to envy richer girls, taking great comfort in the knowledge that
she could supply her own wants, and need ask no one for a penny.

Little notice was taken of her stories, but they found a market, and
encouraged by this fact, she resolved to make a bold stroke for fame
and fortune. Having copied her novel for the fourth time, read it to
all her confidential friends, and submitted it with fear and trembling
to three publishers, she at last disposed of it, on condition that she
would cut it down one third, and omit all the parts which she
particularly admired.

“Now I must either bundle it back in to my tin kitchen to mold, pay for
printing it myself, or chop it up to suit purchasers and get what I can
for it. Fame is a very good thing to have in the house, but cash is
more convenient, so I wish to take the sense of the meeting on this
important subject,” said Jo, calling a family council.

“Don’t spoil your book, my girl, for there is more in it than you know,
and the idea is well worked out. Let it wait and ripen,” was her
father’s advice, and he practiced what he preached, having waited
patiently thirty years for fruit of his own to ripen, and being in no
haste to gather it even now when it was sweet and mellow.