“It seems to me that Jo will profit more by taking the trial than by
waiting,” said Mrs. March. “Criticism is the best test of such work,
for it will show her both unsuspected merits and faults, and help her
to do better next time. We are too partial, but the praise and blame of
outsiders will prove useful, even if she gets but little money.”

“Yes,” said Jo, knitting her brows, “that’s just it. I’ve been fussing
over the thing so long, I really don’t know whether it’s good, bad, or
indifferent. It will be a great help to have cool, impartial persons
take a look at it, and tell me what they think of it.”

“I wouldn’t leave a word out of it. You’ll spoil it if you do, for the
interest of the story is more in the minds than in the actions of the
people, and it will be all a muddle if you don’t explain as you go on,”
said Meg, who firmly believed that this book was the most remarkable
novel ever written.

“But Mr. Allen says, ‘Leave out the explanations, make it brief and
dramatic, and let the characters tell the story’,” interrupted Jo,
turning to the publisher’s note.

“Do as he tells you. He knows what will sell, and we don’t. Make a
good, popular book, and get as much money as you can. By-and-by, when
you’ve got a name, you can afford to digress, and have philosophical
and metaphysical people in your novels,” said Amy, who took a strictly
practical view of the subject.

“Well,” said Jo, laughing, “if my people are ‘philosophical and
metaphysical’, it isn’t my fault, for I know nothing about such things,
except what I hear father say, sometimes. If I’ve got some of his wise
ideas jumbled up with my romance, so much the better for me. Now, Beth,
what do you say?”

“I should so like to see it printed soon,” was all Beth said, and
smiled in saying it. But there was an unconscious emphasis on the last
word, and a wistful look in the eyes that never lost their childlike
candor, which chilled Jo’s heart for a minute with a forboding fear,
and decided her to make her little venture ‘soon’.

So, with Spartan firmness, the young authoress laid her first-born on
her table, and chopped it up as ruthlessly as any ogre. In the hope of
pleasing everyone, she took everyone’s advice, and like the old man and
his donkey in the fable suited nobody.