“Not being a genius, like Keats, it won’t kill me,” she said stoutly,
“and I’ve got the joke on my side, after all, for the parts that were
taken straight out of real life are denounced as impossible and absurd,
and the scenes that I made up out of my own silly head are pronounced
‘charmingly natural, tender, and true’. So I’ll comfort myself with
that, and when I’m ready, I’ll up again and take another.”

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
DOMESTIC EXPERIENCES

Like most other young matrons, Meg began her married life with the
determination to be a model housekeeper. John should find home a
paradise, he should always see a smiling face, should fare sumptuously
every day, and never know the loss of a button. She brought so much
love, energy, and cheerfulness to the work that she could not but
succeed, in spite of some obstacles. Her paradise was not a tranquil
one, for the little woman fussed, was over-anxious to please, and
bustled about like a true Martha, cumbered with many cares. She was too
tired, sometimes, even to smile, John grew dyspeptic after a course of
dainty dishes and ungratefully demanded plain fare. As for buttons, she
soon learned to wonder where they went, to shake her head over the
carelessness of men, and to threaten to make him sew them on himself,
and see if his work would stand impatient and clumsy fingers any better
than hers.

They were very happy, even after they discovered that they couldn’t
live on love alone. John did not find Meg’s beauty diminished, though
she beamed at him from behind the familiar coffee pot. Nor did Meg miss
any of the romance from the daily parting, when her husband followed up
his kiss with the tender inquiry, “Shall I send some veal or mutton for
dinner, darling?” The little house ceased to be a glorified bower, but
it became a home, and the young couple soon felt that it was a change
for the better. At first they played keep-house, and frolicked over it
like children. Then John took steadily to business, feeling the cares
of the head of a family upon his shoulders, and Meg laid by her cambric
wrappers, put on a big apron, and fell to work, as before said, with
more energy than discretion.