John was a mild man, but he was human, and after a long day’s work to
come home tired, hungry, and hopeful, to find a chaotic house, an empty
table, and a cross wife was not exactly conducive to repose of mind or
manner. He restrained himself however, and the little squall would have
blown over, but for one unlucky word.

“It’s a scrape, I acknowledge, but if you will lend a hand, we’ll pull
through and have a good time yet. Don’t cry, dear, but just exert
yourself a bit, and fix us up something to eat. We’re both as hungry as
hunters, so we shan’t mind what it is. Give us the cold meat, and bread
and cheese. We won’t ask for jelly.”

He meant it to be a good-natured joke, but that one word sealed his
fate. Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad failure, and
the last atom of patience vanished as he spoke.

“You must get yourself out of the scrape as you can. I’m too used up to
‘exert’ myself for anyone. It’s like a man to propose a bone and vulgar
bread and cheese for company. I won’t have anything of the sort in my
house. Take that Scott up to Mother’s, and tell him I’m away, sick,
dead, anything. I won’t see him, and you two can laugh at me and my
jelly as much as you like. You won’t have anything else here.” and
having delivered her defiance all on one breath, Meg cast away her
pinafore and precipitately left the field to bemoan herself in her own
room.

What those two creatures did in her absence, she never knew, but Mr.
Scott was not taken ‘up to Mother’s’, and when Meg descended, after
they had strolled away together, she found traces of a promiscuous
lunch which filled her with horror. Lotty reported that they had eaten
“a much, and greatly laughed, and the master bid her throw away all the
sweet stuff, and hide the pots.”

Meg longed to go and tell Mother, but a sense of shame at her own
short-comings, of loyalty to John, “who might be cruel, but nobody
should know it,” restrained her, and after a summary cleaning up, she
dressed herself prettily, and sat down to wait for John to come and be
forgiven.