“John is a good man, but he has his faults, and you must learn to see
and bear with them, remembering your own. He is very decided, but never
will be obstinate, if you reason kindly, not oppose impatiently. He is
very accurate, and particular about the truth—a good trait, though you
call him ‘fussy’. Never deceive him by look or word, Meg, and he will
give you the confidence you deserve, the support you need. He has a
temper, not like ours—one flash and then all over—but the white, still
anger that is seldom stirred, but once kindled is hard to quench. Be
careful, be very careful, not to wake his anger against yourself, for
peace and happiness depend on keeping his respect. Watch yourself, be
the first to ask pardon if you both err, and guard against the little
piques, misunderstandings, and hasty words that often pave the way for
bitter sorrow and regret.”

These words came back to Meg, as she sat sewing in the sunset,
especially the last. This was the first serious disagreement, her own
hasty speeches sounded both silly and unkind, as she recalled them, her
own anger looked childish now, and thoughts of poor John coming home to
such a scene quite melted her heart. She glanced at him with tears in
her eyes, but he did not see them. She put down her work and got up,
thinking, “I will be the first to say, ‘Forgive me’”, but he did not
seem to hear her. She went very slowly across the room, for pride was
hard to swallow, and stood by him, but he did not turn his head. For a
minute she felt as if she really couldn’t do it, then came the thought,
“This is the beginning. I’ll do my part, and have nothing to reproach
myself with,” and stooping down, she softly kissed her husband on the
forehead. Of course that settled it. The penitent kiss was better than
a world of words, and John had her on his knee in a minute, saying
tenderly...

“It was too bad to laugh at the poor little jelly pots. Forgive me,
dear. I never will again!”

But he did, oh bless you, yes, hundreds of times, and so did Meg, both
declaring that it was the sweetest jelly they ever made, for family
peace was preserved in that little family jar.

After this, Meg had Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation, and
served him up a pleasant feast without a cooked wife for the first
course, on which occasion she was so gay and gracious, and made
everything go off so charmingly, that Mr. Scott told John he was a
lucky fellow, and shook his head over the hardships of bachelorhood all
the way home.