“If it was fair, that was in the bond, and I stand to the letter of my
bond, Shylock. There is a pile of clouds in the east, it’s not fair,
and I don’t go.”

“Now, that’s shirking. It’s a lovely day, no prospect of rain, and you
pride yourself on keeping promises, so be honorable, come and do your
duty, and then be at peace for another six months.”

At that minute Jo was particularly absorbed in dressmaking, for she was
mantua-maker general to the family, and took especial credit to herself
because she could use a needle as well as a pen. It was very provoking
to be arrested in the act of a first trying-on, and ordered out to make
calls in her best array on a warm July day. She hated calls of the
formal sort, and never made any till Amy compelled her with a bargain,
bribe, or promise. In the present instance there was no escape, and
having clashed her scissors rebelliously, while protesting that she
smelled thunder, she gave in, put away her work, and taking up her hat
and gloves with an air of resignation, told Amy the victim was ready.

“Jo March, you are perverse enough to provoke a saint! You don’t intend
to make calls in that state, I hope,” cried Amy, surveying her with
amazement.

“Why not? I’m neat and cool and comfortable, quite proper for a dusty
walk on a warm day. If people care more for my clothes than they do for
me, I don’t wish to see them. You can dress for both, and be as elegant
as you please. It pays for you to be fine. It doesn’t for me, and
furbelows only worry me.”

“Oh, dear!” sighed Amy, “now she’s in a contrary fit, and will drive me
distracted before I can get her properly ready. I’m sure it’s no
pleasure to me to go today, but it’s a debt we owe society, and there’s
no one to pay it but you and me. I’ll do anything for you, Jo, if
you’ll only dress yourself nicely, and come and help me do the civil.
You can talk so well, look so aristocratic in your best things, and
behave so beautifully, if you try, that I’m proud of you. I’m afraid to
go alone, do come and take care of me.”

“You’re an artful little puss to flatter and wheedle your cross old
sister in that way. The idea of my being aristocratic and well-bred,
and your being afraid to go anywhere alone! I don’t know which is the
most absurd. Well, I’ll go if I must, and do my best. You shall be
commander of the expedition, and I’ll obey blindly, will that satisfy
you?” said Jo, with a sudden change from perversity to lamblike
submission.