“You’re a perfect cherub! Now put on all your best things, and I’ll
tell you how to behave at each place, so that you will make a good
impression. I want people to like you, and they would if you’d only try
to be a little more agreeable. Do your hair the pretty way, and put the
pink rose in your bonnet. It’s becoming, and you look too sober in your
plain suit. Take your light gloves and the embroidered handkerchief.
We’ll stop at Meg’s, and borrow her white sunshade, and then you can
have my dove-colored one.”

While Amy dressed, she issued her orders, and Jo obeyed them, not
without entering her protest, however, for she sighed as she rustled
into her new organdie, frowned darkly at herself as she tied her bonnet
strings in an irreproachable bow, wrestled viciously with pins as she
put on her collar, wrinkled up her features generally as she shook out
the handkerchief, whose embroidery was as irritating to her nose as the
present mission was to her feelings, and when she had squeezed her
hands into tight gloves with three buttons and a tassel, as the last
touch of elegance, she turned to Amy with an imbecile expression of
countenance, saying meekly...

“I’m perfectly miserable, but if you consider me presentable, I die
happy.”

“You’re highly satisfactory. Turn slowly round, and let me get a
careful view.” Jo revolved, and Amy gave a touch here and there, then
fell back, with her head on one side, observing graciously, “Yes,
you’ll do. Your head is all I could ask, for that white bonnet with the
rose is quite ravishing. Hold back your shoulders, and carry your hands
easily, no matter if your gloves do pinch. There’s one thing you can do
well, Jo, that is, wear a shawl. I can’t, but it’s very nice to see
you, and I’m so glad Aunt March gave you that lovely one. It’s simple,
but handsome, and those folds over the arm are really artistic. Is the
point of my mantle in the middle, and have I looped my dress evenly? I
like to show my boots, for my feet are pretty, though my nose isn’t.”

“You are a thing of beauty and a joy forever,” said Jo, looking through
her hand with the air of a connoisseur at the blue feather against the
golden hair. “Am I to drag my best dress through the dust, or loop it
up, please, ma’am?”

“Hold it up when you walk, but drop it in the house. The sweeping style
suits you best, and you must learn to trail your skirts gracefully. You
haven’t half buttoned one cuff, do it at once. You’ll never look
finished if you are not careful about the little details, for they make
up the pleasing whole.”