Amy felt anxious, as well she might, for when Jo turned freakish there
was no knowing where she would stop. Amy’s face was a study when she
saw her sister skim into the next drawing room, kiss all the young
ladies with effusion, beam graciously upon the young gentlemen, and
join in the chat with a spirit which amazed the beholder. Amy was taken
possession of by Mrs. Lamb, with whom she was a favorite, and forced to
hear a long account of Lucretia’s last attack, while three delightful
young gentlemen hovered near, waiting for a pause when they might rush
in and rescue her. So situated, she was powerless to check Jo, who
seemed possessed by a spirit of mischief, and talked away as volubly as
the lady. A knot of heads gathered about her, and Amy strained her ears
to hear what was going on, for broken sentences filled her with
curiosity, and frequent peals of laughter made her wild to share the
fun. One may imagine her suffering on overhearing fragments of this
sort of conversation.

“She rides splendidly. Who taught her?”

“No one. She used to practice mounting, holding the reins, and sitting
straight on an old saddle in a tree. Now she rides anything, for she
doesn’t know what fear is, and the stableman lets her have horses cheap
because she trains them to carry ladies so well. She has such a passion
for it, I often tell her if everything else fails, she can be a
horsebreaker, and get her living so.”

At this awful speech Amy contained herself with difficulty, for the
impression was being given that she was rather a fast young lady, which
was her especial aversion. But what could she do? For the old lady was
in the middle of her story, and long before it was done, Jo was off
again, making more droll revelations and committing still more fearful
blunders.

“Yes, Amy was in despair that day, for all the good beasts were gone,
and of three left, one was lame, one blind, and the other so balky that
you had to put dirt in his mouth before he would start. Nice animal for
a pleasure party, wasn’t it?”

“Which did she choose?” asked one of the laughing gentlemen, who
enjoyed the subject.

“None of them. She heard of a young horse at the farm house over the
river, and though a lady had never ridden him, she resolved to try,
because he was handsome and spirited. Her struggles were really
pathetic. There was no one to bring the horse to the saddle, so she
took the saddle to the horse. My dear creature, she actually rowed it
over the river, put it on her head, and marched up to the barn to the
utter amazement of the old man!”

“Did she ride the horse?”

“Of course she did, and had a capital time. I expected to see her
brought home in fragments, but she managed him perfectly, and was the
life of the party.”