It might have been worse, but Amy considered it bad. For Jo sat on the
grass, with an encampment of boys about her, and a dirty-footed dog
reposing on the skirt of her state and festival dress, as she related
one of Laurie’s pranks to her admiring audience. One small child was
poking turtles with Amy’s cherished parasol, a second was eating
gingerbread over Jo’s best bonnet, and a third playing ball with her
gloves, but all were enjoying themselves, and when Jo collected her
damaged property to go, her escort accompanied her, begging her to come
again, “It was such fun to hear about Laurie’s larks.”

“Capital boys, aren’t they? I feel quite young and brisk again after
that.” said Jo, strolling along with her hands behind her, partly from
habit, partly to conceal the bespattered parasol.

“Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor?” asked Amy, wisely refraining from
any comment upon Jo’s dilapidated appearance.

“Don’t like him, he puts on airs, snubs his sisters, worries his
father, and doesn’t speak respectfully of his mother. Laurie says he is
fast, and I don’t consider him a desirable acquaintance, so I let him
alone.”

“You might treat him civilly, at least. You gave him a cool nod, and
just now you bowed and smiled in the politest way to Tommy Chamberlain,
whose father keeps a grocery store. If you had just reversed the nod
and the bow, it would have been right,” said Amy reprovingly.

“No, it wouldn’t,” returned Jo, “I neither like, respect, nor admire
Tudor, though his grandfather’s uncle’s nephew’s niece was a third
cousin to a lord. Tommy is poor and bashful and good and very clever. I
think well of him, and like to show that I do, for he is a gentleman in
spite of the brown paper parcels.”

“It’s no use trying to argue with you,” began Amy.

“Not the least, my dear,” interrupted Jo, “so let us look amiable, and
drop a card here, as the Kings are evidently out, for which I’m deeply
grateful.”

The family cardcase having done its duty the girls walked on, and Jo
uttered another thanksgiving on reaching the fifth house, and being
told that the young ladies were engaged.

“Now let us go home, and never mind Aunt March today. We can run down
there any time, and it’s really a pity to trail through the dust in our
best bibs and tuckers, when we are tired and cross.”

“Speak for yourself, if you please. Aunt March likes to have us pay her
the compliment of coming in style, and making a formal call. It’s a
little thing to do, but it gives her pleasure, and I don’t believe it
will hurt your things half so much as letting dirty dogs and clumping
boys spoil them. Stoop down, and let me take the crumbs off of your
bonnet.”