“What a good girl you are, Amy!” said Jo, with a repentant glance from
her own damaged costume to that of her sister, which was fresh and
spotless still. “I wish it was as easy for me to do little things to
please people as it is for you. I think of them, but it takes too much
time to do them, so I wait for a chance to confer a great favor, and
let the small ones slip, but they tell best in the end, I fancy.”

Amy smiled and was mollified at once, saying with a maternal air,
“Women should learn to be agreeable, particularly poor ones, for they
have no other way of repaying the kindnesses they receive. If you’d
remember that, and practice it, you’d be better liked than I am,
because there is more of you.”

“I’m a crotchety old thing, and always shall be, but I’m willing to own
that you are right, only it’s easier for me to risk my life for a
person than to be pleasant to him when I don’t feel like it. It’s a
great misfortune to have such strong likes and dislikes, isn’t it?”

“It’s a greater not to be able to hide them. I don’t mind saying that I
don’t approve of Tudor any more than you do, but I’m not called upon to
tell him so. Neither are you, and there is no use in making yourself
disagreeable because he is.”

“But I think girls ought to show when they disapprove of young men, and
how can they do it except by their manners? Preaching does not do any
good, as I know to my sorrow, since I’ve had Teddie to manage. But
there are many little ways in which I can influence him without a word,
and I say we ought to do it to others if we can.”

“Teddy is a remarkable boy, and can’t be taken as a sample of other
boys,” said Amy, in a tone of solemn conviction, which would have
convulsed the ‘remarkable boy’ if he had heard it. “If we were belles,
or women of wealth and position, we might do something, perhaps, but
for us to frown at one set of young gentlemen because we don’t approve
of them, and smile upon another set because we do, wouldn’t have a
particle of effect, and we should only be considered odd and
puritanical.”

“So we are to countenance things and people which we detest, merely
because we are not belles and millionaires, are we? That’s a nice sort
of morality.”

“I can’t argue about it, I only know that it’s the way of the world,
and people who set themselves against it only get laughed at for their
pains. I don’t like reformers, and I hope you never try to be one.”