“You may have them, and welcome, without asking, if you want them. I
was just thinking I’d offer to put them back, for they belong to your
table rather than mine. Here they are, please take them, and forgive me
if I was hasty in carrying them away last night.”

As she spoke, Amy returned her contribution, with a nod and a smile,
and hurried away again, feeling that it was easier to do a friendly
thing than it was to stay and be thanked for it.

“Now, I call that lovely of her, don’t you?” cried one girl.

May’s answer was inaudible, but another young lady, whose temper was
evidently a little soured by making lemonade, added, with a
disagreeable laugh, “Very lovely, for she knew she wouldn’t sell them
at her own table.”

Now, that was hard. When we make little sacrifices we like to have them
appreciated, at least, and for a minute Amy was sorry she had done it,
feeling that virtue was not always its own reward. But it is, as she
presently discovered, for her spirits began to rise, and her table to
blossom under her skillful hands, the girls were very kind, and that
one little act seemed to have cleared the atmosphere amazingly.

It was a very long day and a hard one for Amy, as she sat behind her
table, often quite alone, for the little girls deserted very soon. Few
cared to buy flowers in summer, and her bouquets began to droop long
before night.

The art table was the most attractive in the room. There was a crowd
about it all day long, and the tenders were constantly flying to and
fro with important faces and rattling money boxes. Amy often looked
wistfully across, longing to be there, where she felt at home and
happy, instead of in a corner with nothing to do. It might seem no
hardship to some of us, but to a pretty, blithe young girl, it was not
only tedious, but very trying, and the thought of Laurie and his
friends made it a real martyrdom.

She did not go home till night, and then she looked so pale and quiet
that they knew the day had been a hard one, though she made no
complaint, and did not even tell what she had done. Her mother gave her
an extra cordial cup of tea. Beth helped her dress, and made a charming
little wreath for her hair, while Jo astonished her family by getting
herself up with unusual care, and hinting darkly that the tables were
about to be turned.

“Don’t do anything rude, pray Jo; I won’t have any fuss made, so let it
all pass and behave yourself,” begged Amy, as she departed early,
hoping to find a reinforcement of flowers to refresh her poor little
table.