“I merely intend to make myself entrancingly agreeable to every one I
know, and to keep them in your corner as long as possible. Teddy and
his boys will lend a hand, and we’ll have a good time yet.” returned
Jo, leaning over the gate to watch for Laurie. Presently the familiar
tramp was heard in the dusk, and she ran out to meet him.

“Is that my boy?”

“As sure as this is my girl!” and Laurie tucked her hand under his arm
with the air of a man whose every wish was gratified.

“Oh, Teddy, such doings!” and Jo told Amy’s wrongs with sisterly zeal.

“A flock of our fellows are going to drive over by-and-by, and I’ll be
hanged if I don’t make them buy every flower she’s got, and camp down
before her table afterward,” said Laurie, espousing her cause with
warmth.

“The flowers are not at all nice, Amy says, and the fresh ones may not
arrive in time. I don’t wish to be unjust or suspicious, but I
shouldn’t wonder if they never came at all. When people do one mean
thing they are very likely to do another,” observed Jo in a disgusted
tone.

“Didn’t Hayes give you the best out of our gardens? I told him to.”

“I didn’t know that, he forgot, I suppose, and, as your grandpa was
poorly, I didn’t like to worry him by asking, though I did want some.”

“Now, Jo, how could you think there was any need of asking? They are
just as much yours as mine. Don’t we always go halves in everything?”
began Laurie, in the tone that always made Jo turn thorny.

“Gracious, I hope not! Half of some of your things wouldn’t suit me at
all. But we mustn’t stand philandering here. I’ve got to help Amy, so
you go and make yourself splendid, and if you’ll be so very kind as to
let Hayes take a few nice flowers up to the Hall, I’ll bless you
forever.”

“Couldn’t you do it now?” asked Laurie, so suggestively that Jo shut
the gate in his face with inhospitable haste, and called through the
bars, “Go away, Teddy, I’m busy.”

Thanks to the conspirators, the tables were turned that night, for
Hayes sent up a wilderness of flowers, with a lovely basket arranged in
his best manner for a centerpiece. Then the March family turned out en
masse, and Jo exerted herself to some purpose, for people not only
came, but stayed, laughing at her nonsense, admiring Amy’s taste, and
apparently enjoying themselves very much. Laurie and his friends
gallantly threw themselves into the breach, bought up the bouquets,
encamped before the table, and made that corner the liveliest spot in
the room. Amy was in her element now, and out of gratitude, if nothing
more, was as spritely and gracious as possible, coming to the
conclusion, about that time, that virtue was its own reward, after all.