Jo behaved herself with exemplary propriety, and when Amy was happily
surrounded by her guard of honor, Jo circulated about the Hall, picking
up various bits of gossip, which enlightened her upon the subject of
the Chester change of base. She reproached herself for her share of the
ill feeling and resolved to exonerate Amy as soon as possible. She also
discovered what Amy had done about the things in the morning, and
considered her a model of magnanimity. As she passed the art table, she
glanced over it for her sister’s things, but saw no sign of them.
“Tucked away out of sight, I dare say,” thought Jo, who could forgive
her own wrongs, but hotly resented any insult offered her family.

“Good evening, Miss Jo. How does Amy get on?” asked May with a
conciliatory air, for she wanted to show that she also could be
generous.

“She has sold everything she had that was worth selling, and now she is
enjoying herself. The flower table is always attractive, you know,
‘especially to gentlemen’.” Jo couldn’t resist giving that little slap,
but May took it so meekly she regretted it a minute after, and fell to
praising the great vases, which still remained unsold.

“Is Amy’s illumination anywhere about? I took a fancy to buy that for
Father,” said Jo, very anxious to learn the fate of her sister’s work.

“Everything of Amy’s sold long ago. I took care that the right people
saw them, and they made a nice little sum of money for us,” returned
May, who had overcome sundry small temptations, as well as Amy had,
that day.

Much gratified, Jo rushed back to tell the good news, and Amy looked
both touched and surprised by the report of May’s word and manner.

“Now, gentlemen, I want you to go and do your duty by the other tables
as generously as you have by mine, especially the art table,” she said,
ordering out ‘Teddy’s own’, as the girls called the college friends.

“‘Charge, Chester, charge!’ is the motto for that table, but do your
duty like men, and you’ll get your money’s worth of art in every sense
of the word,” said the irrepressible Jo, as the devoted phalanx
prepared to take the field.

“To hear is to obey, but March is fairer far than May,” said little
Parker, making a frantic effort to be both witty and tender, and
getting promptly quenched by Laurie, who said...

“Very well, my son, for a small boy!” and walked him off, with a
paternal pat on the head.

“Buy the vases,” whispered Amy to Laurie, as a final heaping of coals
of fire on her enemy’s head.

To May’s great delight, Mr. Laurence not only bought the vases, but
pervaded the hall with one under each arm. The other gentlemen
speculated with equal rashness in all sorts of frail trifles, and
wandered helplessly about afterward, burdened with wax flowers, painted
fans, filigree portfolios, and other useful and appropriate purchases.