Aunt Carrol was there, heard the story, looked pleased, and said
something to Mrs. March in a corner, which made the latter lady beam
with satisfaction, and watch Amy with a face full of mingled pride and
anxiety, though she did not betray the cause of her pleasure till
several days later.

The fair was pronounced a success, and when May bade Amy goodnight, she
did not gush as usual, but gave her an affectionate kiss, and a look
which said ‘forgive and forget’. That satisfied Amy, and when she got
home she found the vases paraded on the parlor chimney piece with a
great bouquet in each. “The reward of merit for a magnanimous March,”
as Laurie announced with a flourish.

“You’ve a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of character
than I ever gave you credit for, Amy. You’ve behaved sweetly, and I
respect you with all my heart,” said Jo warmly, as they brushed their
hair together late that night.

“Yes, we all do, and love her for being so ready to forgive. It must
have been dreadfully hard, after working so long and setting your heart
on selling your own pretty things. I don’t believe I could have done it
as kindly as you did,” added Beth from her pillow.

“Why, girls, you needn’t praise me so. I only did as I’d be done by.
You laugh at me when I say I want to be a lady, but I mean a true
gentlewoman in mind and manners, and I try to do it as far as I know
how. I can’t explain exactly, but I want to be above the little
meannesses and follies and faults that spoil so many women. I’m far
from it now, but I do my best, and hope in time to be what Mother is.”

Amy spoke earnestly, and Jo said, with a cordial hug, “I understand now
what you mean, and I’ll never laugh at you again. You are getting on
faster than you think, and I’ll take lessons of you in true politeness,
for you’ve learned the secret, I believe. Try away, deary, you’ll get
your reward some day, and no one will be more delighted than I shall.”

A week later Amy did get her reward, and poor Jo found it hard to be
delighted. A letter came from Aunt Carrol, and Mrs. March’s face was
illuminated to such a degree when she read it that Jo and Beth, who
were with her, demanded what the glad tidings were.

“Aunt Carrol is going abroad next month, and wants...”

“Me to go with her!” burst in Jo, flying out of her chair in an
uncontrollable rapture.

“No, dear, not you. It’s Amy.”

“Oh, Mother! She’s too young, it’s my turn first. I’ve wanted it so
long. It would do me so much good, and be so altogether splendid. I
must go!”

“I’m afraid it’s impossible, Jo. Aunt says Amy, decidedly, and it is
not for us to dictate when she offers such a favor.”