“It’s always so. Amy has all the fun and I have all the work. It isn’t
fair, oh, it isn’t fair!” cried Jo passionately.

“I’m afraid it’s partly your own fault, dear. When Aunt spoke to me the
other day, she regretted your blunt manners and too independent spirit,
and here she writes, as if quoting something you had said—‘I planned at
first to ask Jo, but as ‘favors burden her’, and she ‘hates French’, I
think I won’t venture to invite her. Amy is more docile, will make a
good companion for Flo, and receive gratefully any help the trip may
give her.”

“Oh, my tongue, my abominable tongue! Why can’t I learn to keep it
quiet?” groaned Jo, remembering words which had been her undoing. When
she had heard the explanation of the quoted phrases, Mrs. March said
sorrowfully...

“I wish you could have gone, but there is no hope of it this time, so
try to bear it cheerfully, and don’t sadden Amy’s pleasure by
reproaches or regrets.”

“I’ll try,” said Jo, winking hard as she knelt down to pick up the
basket she had joyfully upset. “I’ll take a leaf out of her book, and
try not only to seem glad, but to be so, and not grudge her one minute
of happiness. But it won’t be easy, for it is a dreadful
disappointment,” and poor Jo bedewed the little fat pincushion she held
with several very bitter tears.

“Jo, dear, I’m very selfish, but I couldn’t spare you, and I’m glad you
are not going quite yet,” whispered Beth, embracing her, basket and
all, with such a clinging touch and loving face that Jo felt comforted
in spite of the sharp regret that made her want to box her own ears,
and humbly beg Aunt Carrol to burden her with this favor, and see how

jubilation, not quite as heartily as usual, perhaps, but without
repinings at Amy’s good fortune. The young lady herself received the
news as tidings of great joy, went about in a solemn sort of rapture,
and began to sort her colors and pack her pencils that evening, leaving
such trifles as clothes, money, and passports to those less absorbed in
visions of art than herself.

“It isn’t a mere pleasure trip to me, girls,” she said impressively, as
she scraped her best palette. “It will decide my career, for if I have
any genius, I shall find it out in Rome, and will do something to prove
it.”

“Suppose you haven’t?” said Jo, sewing away, with red eyes, at the new
collars which were to be handed over to Amy.

“Then I shall come home and teach drawing for my living,” replied the
aspirant for fame, with philosophic composure. But she made a wry face
at the prospect, and scratched away at her palette as if bent on
vigorous measures before she gave up her hopes.