I never shall get to London if I don’t hurry. The trip was like riding
through a long picture gallery, full of lovely landscapes. The
farmhouses were my delight, with thatched roofs, ivy up to the eaves,
latticed windows, and stout women with rosy children at the doors. The
very cattle looked more tranquil than ours, as they stood knee-deep in
clover, and the hens had a contented cluck, as if they never got
nervous like Yankee biddies. Such perfect color I never saw, the grass
so green, sky so blue, grain so yellow, woods so dark, I was in a
rapture all the way. So was Flo, and we kept bouncing from one side to
the other, trying to see everything while we were whisking along at the
rate of sixty miles an hour. Aunt was tired and went to sleep, but
Uncle read his guidebook, and wouldn’t be astonished at anything. This
is the way we went on. Amy, flying up—“Oh, that must be Kenilworth,
that gray place among the trees!” Flo, darting to my window—“How sweet!
We must go there sometime, won’t we Papa?” Uncle, calmly admiring his
boots—“No, my dear, not unless you want beer, that’s a brewery.”

A pause—then Flo cried out, “Bless me, there’s a gallows and a man
going up.” “Where, where?” shrieks Amy, staring out at two tall posts
with a crossbeam and some dangling chains. “A colliery,” remarks Uncle,
with a twinkle of the eye. “Here’s a lovely flock of lambs all lying
down,” says Amy. “See, Papa, aren’t they pretty?” added Flo
sentimentally. “Geese, young ladies,” returns Uncle, in a tone that
keeps us quiet till Flo settles down to enjoy the _Flirtations of
Captain Cavendish_, and I have the scenery all to myself.

Of course it rained when we got to London, and there was nothing to be
seen but fog and umbrellas. We rested, unpacked, and shopped a little
between the showers. Aunt Mary got me some new things, for I came off
in such a hurry I wasn’t half ready. A white hat and blue feather, a
muslin dress to match, and the loveliest mantle you ever saw. Shopping
in Regent Street is perfectly splendid. Things seem so cheap, nice
ribbons only sixpence a yard. I laid in a stock, but shall get my
gloves in Paris. Doesn’t that sound sort of elegant and rich?