Flo and I, for the fun of it, ordered a hansom cab, while Aunt and
Uncle were out, and went for a drive, though we learned afterward that
it wasn’t the thing for young ladies to ride in them alone. It was so
droll! For when we were shut in by the wooden apron, the man drove so
fast that Flo was frightened, and told me to stop him, but he was up
outside behind somewhere, and I couldn’t get at him. He didn’t hear me
call, nor see me flap my parasol in front, and there we were, quite
helpless, rattling away, and whirling around corners at a breakneck
pace. At last, in my despair, I saw a little door in the roof, and on
poking it open, a red eye appeared, and a beery voice said...

“Now, then, mum?”

I gave my order as soberly as I could, and slamming down the door, with
an “Aye, aye, mum,” the man made his horse walk, as if going to a
funeral. I poked again and said, “A little faster,” then off he went,
helter-skelter as before, and we resigned ourselves to our fate.

Today was fair, and we went to Hyde Park, close by, for we are more
aristocratic than we look. The Duke of Devonshire lives near. I often
see his footmen lounging at the back gate, and the Duke of Wellington’s
house is not far off. Such sights as I saw, my dear! It was as good as
Punch, for there were fat dowagers rolling about in their red and
yellow coaches, with gorgeous Jeameses in silk stockings and velvet
coats, up behind, and powdered coachmen in front. Smart maids, with the
rosiest children I ever saw, handsome girls, looking half asleep,
dandies in queer English hats and lavender kids lounging about, and
tall soldiers, in short red jackets and muffin caps stuck on one side,
looking so funny I longed to sketch them.

Rotten Row means ‘Route de Roi’, or the king’s way, but now it’s more
like a riding school than anything else. The horses are splendid, and
the men, especially the grooms, ride well, but the women are stiff, and
bounce, which isn’t according to our rules. I longed to show them a
tearing American gallop, for they trotted solemnly up and down, in
their scant habits and high hats, looking like the women in a toy
Noah’s Ark. Everyone rides—old men, stout ladies, little children—and
the young folks do a deal of flirting here, I saw a pair exchange rose
buds, for it’s the thing to wear one in the button-hole, and I thought
it rather a nice little idea.

In the P.M. to Westminster Abbey, but don’t expect me to describe it,
that’s impossible, so I’ll only say it was sublime! This evening we are
going to see Fechter, which will be an appropriate end to the happiest
day of my life.