It’s very late, but I can’t let my letter go in the morning without
telling you what happened last evening. Who do you think came in, as we
were at tea? Laurie’s English friends, Fred and Frank Vaughn! I was so
surprised, for I shouldn’t have known them but for the cards. Both are
tall fellows with whiskers, Fred handsome in the English style, and
Frank much better, for he only limps slightly, and uses no crutches.
They had heard from Laurie where we were to be, and came to ask us to
their house, but Uncle won’t go, so we shall return the call, and see
them as we can. They went to the theater with us, and we did have such
a good time, for Frank devoted himself to Flo, and Fred and I talked
over past, present, and future fun as if we had known each other all
our days. Tell Beth Frank asked for her, and was sorry to hear of her
ill health. Fred laughed when I spoke of Jo, and sent his ‘respectful
compliments to the big hat’. Neither of them had forgotten Camp
Laurence, or the fun we had there. What ages ago it seems, doesn’t it?

Aunt is tapping on the wall for the third time, so I must stop. I
really feel like a dissipated London fine lady, writing here so late,
with my room full of pretty things, and my head a jumble of parks,
theaters, new gowns, and gallant creatures who say “Ah!” and twirl
their blond mustaches with the true English lordliness. I long to see
you all, and in spite of my nonsense am, as ever, your loving...

AMY

PARIS

Dear girls,

In my last I told you about our London visit, how kind the Vaughns
were, and what pleasant parties they made for us. I enjoyed the trips
to Hampton Court and the Kensington Museum more than anything else, for
at Hampton I saw Raphael’s cartoons, and at the Museum, rooms full of
pictures by Turner, Lawrence, Reynolds, Hogarth, and the other great
creatures. The day in Richmond Park was charming, for we had a regular
English picnic, and I had more splendid oaks and groups of deer than I
could copy, also heard a nightingale, and saw larks go up. We ‘did’
London to our heart’s content, thanks to Fred and Frank, and were sorry
to go away, for though English people are slow to take you in, when
they once make up their minds to do it they cannot be outdone in
hospitality, I think. The Vaughns hope to meet us in Rome next winter,
and I shall be dreadfully disappointed if they don’t, for Grace and I
are great friends, and the boys very nice fellows, especially Fred.