Well, we were hardly settled here, when he turned up again, saying he
had come for a holiday, and was going to Switzerland. Aunt looked sober
at first, but he was so cool about it she couldn’t say a word. And now
we get on nicely, and are very glad he came, for he speaks French like
a native, and I don’t know what we should do without him. Uncle doesn’t
know ten words, and insists on talking English very loud, as if it
would make people understand him. Aunt’s pronunciation is
old-fashioned, and Flo and I, though we flattered ourselves that we
knew a good deal, find we don’t, and are very grateful to have Fred do
the ‘_parley vooing_’, as Uncle calls it.

Such delightful times as we are having! Sight-seeing from morning till
night, stopping for nice lunches in the gay _cafes_, and meeting with
all sorts of droll adventures. Rainy days I spend in the Louvre,
revelling in pictures. Jo would turn up her naughty nose at some of the
finest, because she has no soul for art, but I have, and I’m
cultivating eye and taste as fast as I can. She would like the relics
of great people better, for I’ve seen her Napoleon’s cocked hat and
gray coat, his baby’s cradle and his old toothbrush, also Marie
Antoinette’s little shoe, the ring of Saint Denis, Charlemagne’s sword,
and many other interesting things. I’ll talk for hours about them when
I come, but haven’t time to write.

The Palais Royale is a heavenly place, so full of _bijouterie_ and
lovely things that I’m nearly distracted because I can’t buy them. Fred
wanted to get me some, but of course I didn’t allow it. Then the Bois
and Champs Elysees are _tres magnifique_. I’ve seen the imperial family
several times, the emperor an ugly, hard-looking man, the empress pale
and pretty, but dressed in bad taste, I thought—purple dress, green
hat, and yellow gloves. Little Nap is a handsome boy, who sits chatting
to his tutor, and kisses his hand to the people as he passes in his
four-horse barouche, with postilions in red satin jackets and a mounted
guard before and behind.

We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens, for they are lovely, though the
antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me better. Pere la Chaise is very
curious, for many of the tombs are like small rooms, and looking in,
one sees a table, with images or pictures of the dead, and chairs for
the mourners to sit in when they come to lament. That is so Frenchy.