Our rooms are on the Rue de Rivoli, and sitting on the balcony, we look
up and down the long, brilliant street. It is so pleasant that we spend
our evenings talking there when too tired with our day’s work to go
out. Fred is very entertaining, and is altogether the most agreeable
young man I ever knew—except Laurie, whose manners are more charming. I
wish Fred was dark, for I don’t fancy light men, however, the Vaughns
are very rich and come of an excellent family, so I won’t find fault
with their yellow hair, as my own is yellower.

Next week we are off to Germany and Switzerland, and as we shall travel
fast, I shall only be able to give you hasty letters. I keep my diary,
and try to ‘remember correctly and describe clearly all that I see and
admire’, as Father advised. It is good practice for me, and with my
sketchbook will give you a better idea of my tour than these scribbles.

Adieu, I embrace you tenderly. _“Votre Amie.”_

HEIDELBERG

My dear Mamma,

Having a quiet hour before we leave for Berne, I’ll try to tell you
what has happened, for some of it is very important, as you will see.

The sail up the Rhine was perfect, and I just sat and enjoyed it with
all my might. Get Father’s old guidebooks and read about it. I haven’t
words beautiful enough to describe it. At Coblentz we had a lovely
time, for some students from Bonn, with whom Fred got acquainted on the
boat, gave us a serenade. It was a moonlight night, and about one
o’clock Flo and I were waked by the most delicious music under our
windows. We flew up, and hid behind the curtains, but sly peeps showed
us Fred and the students singing away down below. It was the most
romantic thing I ever saw—the river, the bridge of boats, the great
fortress opposite, moonlight everywhere, and music fit to melt a heart
of stone.

When they were done we threw down some flowers, and saw them scramble
for them, kiss their hands to the invisible ladies, and go laughing
away, to smoke and drink beer, I suppose. Next morning Fred showed me
one of the crumpled flowers in his vest pocket, and looked very
sentimental. I laughed at him, and said I didn’t throw it, but Flo,
which seemed to disgust him, for he tossed it out of the window, and
turned sensible again. I’m afraid I’m going to have trouble with that
boy, it begins to look like it.