Now comes the serious part, for it happened here, and Fred has just
gone. He has been so kind and jolly that we all got quite fond of him. I never thought of anything but a traveling friendship till the
serenade night. Since then I’ve begun to feel that the moonlight walks,
balcony talks, and daily adventures were something more to him than
fun. I haven’t flirted, Mother, truly, but remembered what you said to
me, and have done my very best. I can’t help it if people like me. I
don’t try to make them, and it worries me if I don’t care for them,
though Jo says I haven’t got any heart. Now I know Mother will shake
her head, and the girls say, “Oh, the mercenary little wretch!”, but
I’ve made up my mind, and if Fred asks me, I shall accept him, though
I’m not madly in love. I like him, and we get on comfortably together. He is handsome, young, clever enough, and very rich—ever so much richer
than the Laurences. I don’t think his family would object, and I should
be very happy, for they are all kind, well-bred, generous people, and
they like me. Fred, as the eldest twin, will have the estate, I
suppose, and such a splendid one it is! A city house in a fashionable
street, not so showy as our big houses, but twice as comfortable and
full of solid luxury, such as English people believe in. I like it, for
it’s genuine. I’ve seen the plate, the family jewels, the old servants,
and pictures of the country place, with its park, great house, lovely
grounds, and fine horses. Oh, it would be all I should ask! And I’d
rather have it than any title such as girls snap up so readily, and
find nothing behind. I may be mercenary, but I hate poverty, and don’t
mean to bear it a minute longer than I can help. One of us _must_ marry
well. Meg didn’t, Jo won’t, Beth can’t yet, so I shall, and make
everything okay all round. I wouldn’t marry a man I hated or despised. You may be sure of that, and though Fred is not my model hero, he does
very well, and in time I should get fond enough of him if he was very
fond of me, and let me do just as I liked. So I’ve been turning the
matter over in my mind the last week, for it was impossible to help
seeing that Fred liked me. He said nothing, but little things showed
it. He never goes with Flo, always gets on my side of the carriage,
table, or promenade, looks sentimental when we are alone, and frowns at
anyone else who ventures to speak to me. Yesterday at dinner, when an
Austrian officer stared at us and then said something to his friend, a
rakish-looking baron, about ‘_ein wonderschones Blondchen’_, Fred
looked as fierce as a lion, and cut his meat so savagely it nearly flew
off his plate.