Well, last evening we went up to the castle about sunset, at least all
of us but Fred, who was to meet us there after going to the Post
Restante for letters. We had a charming time poking about the ruins,
the vaults where the monster tun is, and the beautiful gardens made by
the elector long ago for his English wife. I liked the great terrace
best, for the view was divine, so while the rest went to see the rooms
inside, I sat there trying to sketch the gray stone lion’s head on the
wall, with scarlet woodbine sprays hanging round it. I felt as if I’d
got into a romance, sitting there, watching the Neckar rolling through
the valley, listening to the music of the Austrian band below, and
waiting for my lover, like a real storybook girl. I had a feeling that
something was going to happen and I was ready for it. I didn’t feel
blushy or quakey, but quite cool and only a little excited.

By-and-by I heard Fred’s voice, and then he came hurrying through the
great arch to find me. He looked so troubled that I forgot all about
myself, and asked what the matter was. He said he’d just got a letter
begging him to come home, for Frank was very ill. So he was going at
once on the night train and only had time to say good-by. I was very
sorry for him, and disappointed for myself, but only for a minute
because he said, as he shook hands, and said it in a way that I could
not mistake, “I shall soon come back, you won’t forget me, Amy?”

I didn’t promise, but I looked at him, and he seemed satisfied, and
there was no time for anything but messages and good-byes, for he was
off in an hour, and we all miss him very much. I know he wanted to
speak, but I think, from something he once hinted, that he had promised
his father not to do anything of the sort yet a while, for he is a rash
boy, and the old gentleman dreads a foreign daughter-in-law. We shall
soon meet in Rome, and then, if I don’t change my mind, I’ll say “Yes,
thank you,” when he says “Will you, please?”

Of course this is all _very private_, but I wished you to know what was
going on. Don’t be anxious about me, remember I am your ‘prudent Amy’,
and be sure I will do nothing rashly. Send me as much advice as you
like. I’ll use it if I can. I wish I could see you for a good talk,
Marmee. Love and trust me.

Ever your AMY

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
TENDER TROUBLES

“Jo, I’m anxious about Beth.”

“Why, Mother, she has seemed unusually well since the babies came.”

“It’s not her health that troubles me now, it’s her spirits. I’m sure
there is something on her mind, and I want you to discover what it is.”

“What makes you think so, Mother?”