“She sits alone a good deal, and doesn’t talk to her father as much as
she used. I found her crying over the babies the other day. When she
sings, the songs are always sad ones, and now and then I see a look in
her face that I don’t understand. This isn’t like Beth, and it worries
me.”

“Have you asked her about it?”

“I have tried once or twice, but she either evaded my questions or
looked so distressed that I stopped. I never force my children’s
confidence, and I seldom have to wait for long.”

Mrs. March glanced at Jo as she spoke, but the face opposite seemed
quite unconscious of any secret disquietude but Beth’s, and after
sewing thoughtfully for a minute, Jo said, “I think she is growing up,
and so begins to dream dreams, and have hopes and fears and fidgets,
without knowing why or being able to explain them. Why, Mother, Beth’s
eighteen, but we don’t realize it, and treat her like a child,
forgetting she’s a woman.”

“So she is. Dear heart, how fast you do grow up,” returned her mother
with a sigh and a smile.

“Can’t be helped, Marmee, so you must resign yourself to all sorts of
worries, and let your birds hop out of the nest, one by one. I promise
never to hop very far, if that is any comfort to you.”

“It’s a great comfort, Jo. I always feel strong when you are at home,
now Meg is gone. Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon,
but when the tug comes, you are always ready.”

“Why, you know I don’t mind hard jobs much, and there must always be
one scrub in a family. Amy is splendid in fine works and I’m not, but I
feel in my element when all the carpets are to be taken up, or half the
family fall sick at once. Amy is distinguishing herself abroad, but if
anything is amiss at home, I’m your man.”

“I leave Beth to your hands, then, for she will open her tender little
heart to her Jo sooner than to anyone else. Be very kind, and don’t let
her think anyone watches or talks about her. If she only would get
quite strong and cheerful again, I shouldn’t have a wish in the world.”

“Happy woman! I’ve got heaps.”

“My dear, what are they?”

“I’ll settle Bethy’s troubles, and then I’ll tell you mine. They are
not very wearing, so they’ll keep.” and Jo stitched away, with a wise
nod which set her mother’s heart at rest about her for the present at
least.