While apparently absorbed in her own affairs, Jo watched Beth, and
after many conflicting conjectures, finally settled upon one which
seemed to explain the change in her. A slight incident gave Jo the clue
to the mystery, she thought, and lively fancy, loving heart did the
rest. She was affecting to write busily one Saturday afternoon, when
she and Beth were alone together. Yet as she scribbled, she kept her
eye on her sister, who seemed unusually quiet. Sitting at the window,
Beth’s work often dropped into her lap, and she leaned her head upon
her hand, in a dejected attitude, while her eyes rested on the dull,
autumnal landscape. Suddenly some one passed below, whistling like an
operatic blackbird, and a voice called out, “All serene! Coming in
tonight.”

Beth started, leaned forward, smiled and nodded, watched the passer-by
till his quick tramp died away, then said softly as if to herself, “How
strong and well and happy that dear boy looks.”

“Hum!” said Jo, still intent upon her sister’s face, for the bright
color faded as quickly as it came, the smile vanished, and presently a
tear lay shining on the window ledge. Beth whisked it off, and in her
half-averted face read a tender sorrow that made her own eyes fill.
Fearing to betray herself, she slipped away, murmuring something about
needing more paper.

“Mercy on me, Beth loves Laurie!” she said, sitting down in her own
room, pale with the shock of the discovery which she believed she had
just made. “I never dreamed of such a thing. What will Mother say? I
wonder if her...” there Jo stopped and turned scarlet with a sudden
thought. “If he shouldn’t love back again, how dreadful it would be. He
must. I’ll make him!” and she shook her head threateningly at the
picture of the mischievous-looking boy laughing at her from the wall.
“Oh dear, we are growing up with a vengeance. Here’s Meg married and a
mamma, Amy flourishing away at Paris, and Beth in love. I’m the only
one that has sense enough to keep out of mischief.” Jo thought intently
for a minute with her eyes fixed on the picture, then she smoothed out
her wrinkled forehead and said, with a decided nod at the face
opposite, “No thank you, sir, you’re very charming, but you’ve no more
stability than a weathercock. So you needn’t write touching notes and
smile in that insinuating way, for it won’t do a bit of good, and I
won’t have it.”