Laurie knew this pillow well, and had cause to regard it with deep
aversion, having been unmercifully pummeled with it in former days when
romping was allowed, and now frequently debarred by it from the seat he
most coveted next to Jo in the sofa corner. If ‘the sausage’ as they
called it, stood on end, it was a sign that he might approach and
repose, but if it lay flat across the sofa, woe to man, woman, or child
who dared disturb it! That evening Jo forgot to barricade her corner,
and had not been in her seat five minutes, before a massive form
appeared beside her, and with both arms spread over the sofa back, both
long legs stretched out before him, Laurie exclaimed, with a sigh of
satisfaction...

“Now, this is filling at the price.”

“No slang,” snapped Jo, slamming down the pillow. But it was too late,
there was no room for it, and coasting onto the floor, it disappeared
in a most mysterious manner.

“Come, Jo, don’t be thorny. After studying himself to a skeleton all
the week, a fellow deserves petting and ought to get it.”

“Beth will pet you. I’m busy.”

“No, she’s not to be bothered with me, but you like that sort of thing,
unless you’ve suddenly lost your taste for it. Have you? Do you hate
your boy, and want to fire pillows at him?”

Anything more wheedlesome than that touching appeal was seldom heard,
but Jo quenched ‘her boy’ by turning on him with a stern query, “How
many bouquets have you sent Miss Randal this week?”

“Not one, upon my word. She’s engaged. Now then.”

“I’m glad of it, that’s one of your foolish extravagances, sending
flowers and things to girls for whom you don’t care two pins,”
continued Jo reprovingly.

“Sensible girls for whom I do care whole papers of pins won’t let me
send them ‘flowers and things’, so what can I do? My feelings need a
‘vent’.”

“Mother doesn’t approve of flirting even in fun, and you do flirt
desperately, Teddy.”

“I’d give anything if I could answer, ‘So do you’. As I can’t, I’ll
merely say that I don’t see any harm in that pleasant little game, if
all parties understand that it’s only play.”

“Well, it does look pleasant, but I can’t learn how it’s done. I’ve
tried, because one feels awkward in company not to do as everybody else
is doing, but I don’t seem to get on”, said Jo, forgetting to play
mentor.

“Take lessons of Amy, she has a regular talent for it.”

“Yes, she does it very prettily, and never seems to go too far. I
suppose it’s natural to some people to please without trying, and
others to always say and do the wrong thing in the wrong place.”