“I’m glad you can’t flirt. It’s really refreshing to see a sensible,
straightforward girl, who can be jolly and kind without making a fool
of herself. Between ourselves, Jo, some of the girls I know really do
go on at such a rate I’m ashamed of them. They don’t mean any harm, I’m
sure, but if they knew how we fellows talked about them afterward,
they’d mend their ways, I fancy.”

“They do the same, and as their tongues are the sharpest, you fellows
get the worst of it, for you are as silly as they, every bit. If you
behaved properly, they would, but knowing you like their nonsense, they
keep it up, and then you blame them.”

“Much you know about it, ma’am,” said Laurie in a superior tone. “We
don’t like romps and flirts, though we may act as if we did sometimes.
The pretty, modest girls are never talked about, except respectfully,
among gentleman. Bless your innocent soul! If you could be in my place
for a month you’d see things that would astonish you a trifle. Upon my
word, when I see one of those harum-scarum girls, I always want to say
with our friend Cock Robin...

“Out upon you, fie upon you,
Bold-faced jig!”

It was impossible to help laughing at the funny conflict between
Laurie’s chivalrous reluctance to speak ill of womankind, and his very
natural dislike of the unfeminine folly of which fashionable society
showed him many samples. Jo knew that ‘young Laurence’ was regarded as
a most eligible parti by worldly mamas, was much smiled upon by their
daughters, and flattered enough by ladies of all ages to make a coxcomb
of him, so she watched him rather jealously, fearing he would be
spoiled, and rejoiced more than she confessed to find that he still
believed in modest girls. Returning suddenly to her admonitory tone,
she said, dropping her voice, “If you must have a ‘vent’, Teddy, go and
devote yourself to one of the ‘pretty, modest girls’ whom you do
respect, and not waste your time with the silly ones.”

“You really advise it?” and Laurie looked at her with an odd mixture of
anxiety and merriment in his face.

“Yes, I do, but you’d better wait till you are through college, on the
whole, and be fitting yourself for the place meantime. You’re not half
good enough for—well, whoever the modest girl may be.” and Jo looked a
little queer likewise, for a name had almost escaped her.

“That I’m not!” acquiesced Laurie, with an expression of humility quite
new to him, as he dropped his eyes and absently wound Jo’s apron tassel
round his finger.

“Mercy on us, this will never do,” thought Jo, adding aloud, “Go and
sing to me. I’m dying for some music, and always like yours.”

“I’d rather stay here, thank you.”