With her eyes on her work Jo answered soberly, “I want something new. I
feel restless and anxious to be seeing, doing, and learning more than I
am. I brood too much over my own small affairs, and need stirring up,
so as I can be spared this winter, I’d like to hop a little way and try
my wings.”

“Where will you hop?”

“To New York. I had a bright idea yesterday, and this is it. You know
Mrs. Kirke wrote to you for some respectable young person to teach her
children and sew. It’s rather hard to find just the thing, but I think
I should suit if I tried.”

“My dear, go out to service in that great boarding house!” and Mrs.
March looked surprised, but not displeased.

“It’s not exactly going out to service, for Mrs. Kirke is your
friend—the kindest soul that ever lived—and would make things pleasant
for me, I know. Her family is separate from the rest, and no one knows
me there. Don’t care if they do. It’s honest work, and I’m not ashamed
of it.”

“Nor I. But your writing?”

“All the better for the change. I shall see and hear new things, get
new ideas, and even if I haven’t much time there, I shall bring home
quantities of material for my rubbish.”

“I have no doubt of it, but are these your only reasons for this sudden
fancy?”

“No, Mother.”

“May I know the others?”

Jo looked up and Jo looked down, then said slowly, with sudden color in
her cheeks. “It may be vain and wrong to say it, but—I’m afraid—Laurie
is getting too fond of me.”

“Then you don’t care for him in the way it is evident he begins to care
for you?” and Mrs. March looked anxious as she put the question.

“Mercy, no! I love the dear boy, as I always have, and am immensely
proud of him, but as for anything more, it’s out of the question.”

“I’m glad of that, Jo.”

“Why, please?”

“Because, dear, I don’t think you suited to one another. As friends you
are very happy, and your frequent quarrels soon blow over, but I fear
you would both rebel if you were mated for life. You are too much alike
and too fond of freedom, not to mention hot tempers and strong wills,
to get on happily together, in a relation which needs infinite patience
and forbearance, as well as love.”

“That’s just the feeling I had, though I couldn’t express it. I’m glad
you think he is only beginning to care for me. It would trouble me
sadly to make him unhappy, for I couldn’t fall in love with the dear
old fellow merely out of gratitude, could I?”

“You are sure of his feeling for you?”