The plan was talked over in a family council and agreed upon, for Mrs.
Kirke gladly accepted Jo, and promised to make a pleasant home for her.
The teaching would render her independent, and such leisure as she got
might be made profitable by writing, while the new scenes and society
would be both useful and agreeable. Jo liked the prospect and was eager
to be gone, for the home nest was growing too narrow for her restless
nature and adventurous spirit. When all was settled, with fear and
trembling she told Laurie, but to her surprise he took it very quietly.
He had been graver than usual of late, but very pleasant, and when
jokingly accused of turning over a new leaf, he answered soberly, “So I
am, and I mean this one shall stay turned.”

Jo was very much relieved that one of his virtuous fits should come on
just then, and made her preparations with a lightened heart, for Beth
seemed more cheerful, and hoped she was doing the best for all.

“One thing I leave in your especial care,” she said, the night before
she left.

“You mean your papers?” asked Beth.

“No, my boy. Be very good to him, won’t you?”

“Of course I will, but I can’t fill your place, and he’ll miss you
sadly.”

“It won’t hurt him, so remember, I leave him in your charge, to plague,
pet, and keep in order.”

“I’ll do my best, for your sake,” promised Beth, wondering why Jo
looked at her so queerly.

When Laurie said good-by, he whispered significantly, “It won’t do a
bit of good, Jo. My eye is on you, so mind what you do, or I’ll come
and bring you home.”

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
JO’S JOURNAL

New York, November

Dear Marmee and Beth,

I’m going to write you a regular volume, for I’ve got heaps to tell,
though I’m not a fine young lady traveling on the continent. When I
lost sight of Father’s dear old face, I felt a trifle blue, and might
have shed a briny drop or two, if an Irish lady with four small
children, all crying more or less, hadn’t diverted my mind, for I
amused myself by dropping gingerbread nuts over the seat every time
they opened their mouths to roar.

Soon the sun came out, and taking it as a good omen, I cleared up
likewise and enjoyed my journey with all my heart.