Mrs. Kirke welcomed me so kindly I felt at home at once, even in that
big house full of strangers. She gave me a funny little sky parlor—all
she had, but there is a stove in it, and a nice table in a sunny
window, so I can sit here and write whenever I like. A fine view and a
church tower opposite atone for the many stairs, and I took a fancy to
my den on the spot. The nursery, where I am to teach and sew, is a
pleasant room next Mrs. Kirke’s private parlor, and the two little
girls are pretty children, rather spoiled, I fancy, but they took to me
after telling them The Seven Bad Pigs, and I’ve no doubt I shall make a
model governess.

I am to have my meals with the children, if I prefer it to the great
table, and for the present I do, for I am bashful, though no one will
believe it.

“Now, my dear, make yourself at home,” said Mrs. K. in her motherly
way, “I’m on the drive from morning to night, as you may suppose with
such a family, but a great anxiety will be off my mind if I know the
children are safe with you. My rooms are always open to you, and your
own shall be as comfortable as I can make it. There are some pleasant
people in the house if you feel sociable, and your evenings are always
free. Come to me if anything goes wrong, and be as happy as you can.
There’s the tea bell, I must run and change my cap.” And off she
bustled, leaving me to settle myself in my new nest.

As I went downstairs soon after, I saw something I liked. The flights
are very long in this tall house, and as I stood waiting at the head of
the third one for a little servant girl to lumber up, I saw a gentleman
come along behind her, take the heavy hod of coal out of her hand,
carry it all the way up, put it down at a door near by, and walk away,
saying, with a kind nod and a foreign accent, “It goes better so. The
little back is too young to haf such heaviness.”

Wasn’t it good of him? I like such things, for as Father says, trifles
show character. When I mentioned it to Mrs. K., that evening, she
laughed, and said, “That must have been Professor Bhaer, he’s always
doing things of that sort.”