Mrs. K. told me he was from Berlin, very learned and good, but poor as
a church mouse, and gives lessons to support himself and two little
orphan nephews whom he is educating here, according to the wishes of
his sister, who married an American. Not a very romantic story, but it
interested me, and I was glad to hear that Mrs. K. lends him her parlor
for some of his scholars. There is a glass door between it and the
nursery, and I mean to peep at him, and then I’ll tell you how he
looks. He’s almost forty, so it’s no harm, Marmee.

After tea and a go-to-bed romp with the little girls, I attacked the
big workbasket, and had a quiet evening chatting with my new friend. I
shall keep a journal-letter, and send it once a week, so goodnight, and
more tomorrow.

Tuesday Eve

Had a lively time in my seminary this morning, for the children acted
like Sancho, and at one time I really thought I should shake them all
round. Some good angel inspired me to try gymnastics, and I kept it up
till they were glad to sit down and keep still. After luncheon, the
girl took them out for a walk, and I went to my needlework like little
Mabel ‘with a willing mind’. I was thanking my stars that I’d learned
to make nice buttonholes, when the parlor door opened and shut, and
someone began to hum, Kennst Du Das Land, like a big bumblebee. It was
dreadfully improper, I know, but I couldn’t resist the temptation, and
lifting one end of the curtain before the glass door, I peeped in.
Professor Bhaer was there, and while he arranged his books, I took a
good look at him. A regular German—rather stout, with brown hair
tumbled all over his head, a bushy beard, good nose, the kindest eyes I
ever saw, and a splendid big voice that does one’s ears good, after our
sharp or slipshod American gabble. His clothes were rusty, his hands
were large, and he hadn’t a really handsome feature in his face, except
his beautiful teeth, yet I liked him, for he had a fine head, his linen
was very nice, and he looked like a gentleman, though two buttons were
off his coat and there was a patch on one shoe. He looked sober in
spite of his humming, till he went to the window to turn the hyacinth
bulbs toward the sun, and stroke the cat, who received him like an old
friend. Then he smiled, and when a tap came at the door, called out in
a loud, brisk tone, “Herein!”

I was just going to run, when I caught sight of a morsel of a child
carrying a big book, and stopped, to see what was going on.

“Me wants me Bhaer,” said the mite, slamming down her book and running
to meet him.