Of course I couldn’t say anything after that, and as it really is a
splendid opportunity, I made the bargain, and we began. I took four
lessons, and then I stuck fast in a grammatical bog. The Professor was
very patient with me, but it must have been torment to him, and now and
then he’d look at me with such an expression of mild despair that it
was a toss-up with me whether to laugh or cry. I tried both ways, and
when it came to a sniff or utter mortification and woe, he just threw
the grammar on to the floor and marched out of the room. I felt myself
disgraced and deserted forever, but didn’t blame him a particle, and
was scrambling my papers together, meaning to rush upstairs and shake
myself hard, when in he came, as brisk and beaming as if I’d covered
myself in glory.

“Now we shall try a new way. You and I will read these pleasant little
_marchen_ together, and dig no more in that dry book, that goes in the
corner for making us trouble.”

He spoke so kindly, and opened Hans Anderson’s fairy tales so
invitingly before me, that I was more ashamed than ever, and went at my
lesson in a neck-or-nothing style that seemed to amuse him immensely. I
forgot my bashfulness, and pegged away (no other word will express it)
with all my might, tumbling over long words, pronouncing according to
inspiration of the minute, and doing my very best. When I finished
reading my first page, and stopped for breath, he clapped his hands and
cried out in his hearty way, “Das ist gut! Now we go well! My turn. I
do him in German, gif me your ear.” And away he went, rumbling out the
words with his strong voice and a relish which was good to see as well
as hear. Fortunately the story was _The Constant Tin Soldier_, which is
droll, you know, so I could laugh, and I did, though I didn’t
understand half he read, for I couldn’t help it, he was so earnest, I
so excited, and the whole thing so comical.

After that we got on better, and now I read my lessons pretty well, for
this way of studying suits me, and I can see that the grammar gets
tucked into the tales and poetry as one gives pills in jelly. I like it
very much, and he doesn’t seem tired of it yet, which is very good of
him, isn’t it? I mean to give him something on Christmas, for I dare
not offer money. Tell me something nice, Marmee.