I’m glad Laurie seems so happy and busy, that he has given up smoking
and lets his hair grow. You see Beth manages him better than I did. I’m
not jealous, dear, do your best, only don’t make a saint of him. I’m
afraid I couldn’t like him without a spice of human naughtiness. Read
him bits of my letters. I haven’t time to write much, and that will do
just as well. Thank Heaven Beth continues so comfortable.

JANUARY

A Happy New Year to you all, my dearest family, which of course
includes Mr. L. and a young man by the name of Teddy. I can’t tell you
how much I enjoyed your Christmas bundle, for I didn’t get it till
night and had given up hoping. Your letter came in the morning, but you
said nothing about a parcel, meaning it for a surprise, so I was
disappointed, for I’d had a ‘kind of feeling’ that you wouldn’t forget
me. I felt a little low in my mind as I sat up in my room after tea,
and when the big, muddy, battered-looking bundle was brought to me, I
just hugged it and pranced. It was so homey and refreshing that I sat
down on the floor and read and looked and ate and laughed and cried, in
my usual absurd way. The things were just what I wanted, and all the
better for being made instead of bought. Beth’s new ‘ink bib’ was
capital, and Hannah’s box of hard gingerbread will be a treasure. I’ll
be sure and wear the nice flannels you sent, Marmee, and read carefully
the books Father has marked. Thank you all, heaps and heaps!

Speaking of books reminds me that I’m getting rich in that line, for on
New Year’s Day Mr. Bhaer gave me a fine Shakespeare. It is one he
values much, and I’ve often admired it, set up in the place of honor
with his German Bible, Plato, Homer, and Milton, so you may imagine how
I felt when he brought it down, without its cover, and showed me my own
name in it, “from my friend Friedrich Bhaer”.

“You say often you wish a library. Here I gif you one, for between
these lids (he meant covers) is many books in one. Read him well, and
he will help you much, for the study of character in this book will
help you to read it in the world and paint it with your pen.”