I thanked him as well as I could, and talk now about ‘my library’, as
if I had a hundred books. I never knew how much there was in
Shakespeare before, but then I never had a Bhaer to explain it to me.
Now don’t laugh at his horrid name. It isn’t pronounced either Bear or
Beer, as people will say it, but something between the two, as only
Germans can give it. I’m glad you both like what I tell you about him,
and hope you will know him some day. Mother would admire his warm
heart, Father his wise head. I admire both, and feel rich in my new
‘friend Friedrich Bhaer’.

Not having much money, or knowing what he’d like, I got several little
things, and put them about the room, where he would find them
unexpectedly. They were useful, pretty, or funny, a new standish on his
table, a little vase for his flower, he always has one, or a bit of
green in a glass, to keep him fresh, he says, and a holder for his
blower, so that he needn’t burn up what Amy calls ‘mouchoirs’. I made
it like those Beth invented, a big butterfly with a fat body, and black
and yellow wings, worsted feelers, and bead eyes. It took his fancy
immensely, and he put it on his mantlepiece as an article of virtue, so
it was rather a failure after all. Poor as he is, he didn’t forget a
servant or a child in the house, and not a soul here, from the French
laundrywoman to Miss Norton forgot him. I was so glad of that.

They got up a masquerade, and had a gay time New Year’s Eve. I didn’t
mean to go down, having no dress. But at the last minute, Mrs. Kirke
remembered some old brocades, and Miss Norton lent me lace and
feathers. So I dressed up as Mrs. Malaprop, and sailed in with a mask
on. No one knew me, for I disguised my voice, and no one dreamed of the
silent, haughty Miss March (for they think I am very stiff and cool,
most of them, and so I am to whippersnappers) could dance and dress,
and burst out into a ‘nice derangement of epitaphs, like an allegory on
the banks of the Nile’. I enjoyed it very much, and when we unmasked it
was fun to see them stare at me. I heard one of the young men tell
another that he knew I’d been an actress, in fact, he thought he
remembered seeing me at one of the minor theaters. Meg will relish that
joke. Mr. Bhaer was Nick Bottom, and Tina was Titania, a perfect little
fairy in his arms. To see them dance was ‘quite a landscape’, to use a
Teddyism.