Down went the highest pair of heels, up rose the smokiest gentleman,
and carefully cherishing his cigar between his fingers, he advanced
with a nod and a countenance expressive of nothing but sleep. Feeling
that she must get through the matter somehow, Jo produced her
manuscript and, blushing redder and redder with each sentence,
blundered out fragments of the little speech carefully prepared for the
occasion.

“A friend of mine desired me to offer—a story—just as an
experiment—would like your opinion—be glad to write more if this
suits.”

While she blushed and blundered, Mr. Dashwood had taken the manuscript,
and was turning over the leaves with a pair of rather dirty fingers,
and casting critical glances up and down the neat pages.

“Not a first attempt, I take it?” observing that the pages were
numbered, covered only on one side, and not tied up with a ribbon—sure
sign of a novice.

“No, sir. She has had some experience, and got a prize for a tale in
the _Blarneystone Banner_.”

“Oh, did she?” and Mr. Dashwood gave Jo a quick look, which seemed to
take note of everything she had on, from the bow in her bonnet to the
buttons on her boots. “Well, you can leave it, if you like. We’ve more
of this sort of thing on hand than we know what to do with at present,
but I’ll run my eye over it, and give you an answer next week.”

Now, Jo did _not_ like to leave it, for Mr. Dashwood didn’t suit her at
all, but, under the circumstances, there was nothing for her to do but
bow and walk away, looking particularly tall and dignified, as she was
apt to do when nettled or abashed. Just then she was both, for it was
perfectly evident from the knowing glances exchanged among the
gentlemen that her little fiction of ‘my friend’ was considered a good
joke, and a laugh, produced by some inaudible remark of the editor, as
he closed the door, completed her discomfiture. Half resolving never to
return, she went home, and worked off her irritation by stitching
pinafores vigorously, and in an hour or two was cool enough to laugh
over the scene and long for next week.

When she went again, Mr. Dashwood was alone, whereat she rejoiced. Mr.
Dashwood was much wider awake than before, which was agreeable, and Mr.
Dashwood was not too deeply absorbed in a cigar to remember his
manners, so the second interview was much more comfortable than the
first.

“We’ll take this (editors never say I), if you don’t object to a few
alterations. It’s too long, but omitting the passages I’ve marked will
make it just the right length,” he said, in a businesslike tone.