She did neither, but she remembered the scene, and gave the Professor
her heartiest respect, for she knew it cost him an effort to speak out
then and there, because his conscience would not let him be silent. She
began to see that character is a better possession than money, rank,
intellect, or beauty, and to feel that if greatness is what a wise man
has defined it to be, ‘truth, reverence, and good will’, then her
friend Friedrich Bhaer was not only good, but great.

This belief strengthened daily. She valued his esteem, she coveted his
respect, she wanted to be worthy of his friendship, and just when the
wish was sincerest, she came near to losing everything. It all grew out
of a cocked hat, for one evening the Professor came in to give Jo her
lesson with a paper soldier cap on his head, which Tina had put there
and he had forgotten to take off.

“It’s evident he doesn’t look in his glass before coming down,” thought
Jo, with a smile, as he said “Goot efening,” and sat soberly down,
quite unconscious of the ludicrous contrast between his subject and his
headgear, for he was going to read her the Death of Wallenstein.

She said nothing at first, for she liked to hear him laugh out his big,
hearty laugh when anything funny happened, so she left him to discover
it for himself, and presently forgot all about it, for to hear a German
read Schiller is rather an absorbing occupation. After the reading came
the lesson, which was a lively one, for Jo was in a gay mood that
night, and the cocked hat kept her eyes dancing with merriment. The
Professor didn’t know what to make of her, and stopped at last to ask
with an air of mild surprise that was irresistible. . .

“Mees Marsch, for what do you laugh in your master’s face? Haf you no
respect for me, that you go on so bad?”

“How can I be respectful, Sir, when you forget to take your hat off?”
said Jo.

Lifting his hand to his head, the absent-minded Professor gravely felt
and removed the little cocked hat, looked at it a minute, and then
threw back his head and laughed like a merry bass viol.

“Ah! I see him now, it is that imp Tina who makes me a fool with my
cap. Well, it is nothing, but see you, if this lesson goes not well,
you too shall wear him.”

But the lesson did not go at all for a few minutes because Mr. Bhaer
caught sight of a picture on the hat, and unfolding it, said with great
disgust, “I wish these papers did not come in the house. They are not
for children to see, nor young people to read. It is not well, and I
haf no patience with those who make this harm.”