Jo glanced at the sheet and saw a pleasing illustration composed of a
lunatic, a corpse, a villain, and a viper. She did not like it, but the
impulse that made her turn it over was not one of displeasure but fear,
because for a minute she fancied the paper was the Volcano. It was not,
however, and her panic subsided as she remembered that even if it had
been and one of her own tales in it, there would have been no name to
betray her. She had betrayed herself, however, by a look and a blush,
for though an absent man, the Professor saw a good deal more than
people fancied. He knew that Jo wrote, and had met her down among the
newspaper offices more than once, but as she never spoke of it, he
asked no questions in spite of a strong desire to see her work. Now it
occurred to him that she was doing what she was ashamed to own, and it
troubled him. He did not say to himself, “It is none of my business.
I’ve no right to say anything,” as many people would have done. He only
remembered that she was young and poor, a girl far away from mother’s
love and father’s care, and he was moved to help her with an impulse as
quick and natural as that which would prompt him to put out his hand to
save a baby from a puddle. All this flashed through his mind in a
minute, but not a trace of it appeared in his face, and by the time the
paper was turned, and Jo’s needle threaded, he was ready to say quite
naturally, but very gravely...

“Yes, you are right to put it from you. I do not think that good young
girls should see such things. They are made pleasant to some, but I
would more rather give my boys gunpowder to play with than this bad
trash.”

“All may not be bad, only silly, you know, and if there is a demand for
it, I don’t see any harm in supplying it. Many very respectable people
make an honest living out of what are called sensation stories,” said
Jo, scratching gathers so energetically that a row of little slits
followed her pin.

“There is a demand for whisky, but I think you and I do not care to
sell it. If the respectable people knew what harm they did, they would
not feel that the living was honest. They haf no right to put poison in
the sugarplum, and let the small ones eat it. No, they should think a
little, and sweep mud in the street before they do this thing.”

Mr. Bhaer spoke warmly, and walked to the fire, crumpling the paper in
his hands. Jo sat still, looking as if the fire had come to her, for
her cheeks burned long after the cocked hat had turned to smoke and
gone harmlessly up the chimney.