He helped her in many ways, proving himself a true friend, and Jo was
happy, for while her pen lay idle, she was learning other lessons
besides German, and laying a foundation for the sensation story of her
own life.

It was a pleasant winter and a long one, for she did not leave Mrs.
Kirke till June. Everyone seemed sorry when the time came. The children
were inconsolable, and Mr. Bhaer’s hair stuck straight up all over his
head, for he always rumpled it wildly when disturbed in mind.

“Going home? Ah, you are happy that you haf a home to go in,” he said,
when she told him, and sat silently pulling his beard in the corner,
while she held a little levee on that last evening.

She was going early, so she bade them all goodbye overnight, and when
his turn came, she said warmly, “Now, Sir, you won’t forget to come and
see us, if you ever travel our way, will you? I’ll never forgive you if
you do, for I want them all to know my friend.”

“Do you? Shall I come?” he asked, looking down at her with an eager
expression which she did not see.

“Yes, come next month. Laurie graduates then, and you’d enjoy
commencement as something new.”

“That is your best friend, of whom you speak?” he said in an altered
tone.

“Yes, my boy Teddy. I’m very proud of him and should like you to see
him.”

Jo looked up then, quite unconscious of anything but her own pleasure
in the prospect of showing them to one another. Something in Mr.
Bhaer’s face suddenly recalled the fact that she might find Laurie more
than a ‘best friend’, and simply because she particularly wished not to
look as if anything was the matter, she involuntarily began to blush,
and the more she tried not to, the redder she grew. If it had not been
for Tina on her knee. She didn’t know what would have become of her.
Fortunately the child was moved to hug her, so she managed to hide her
face an instant, hoping the Professor did not see it. But he did, and
his own changed again from that momentary anxiety to its usual
expression, as he said cordially...

“I fear I shall not make the time for that, but I wish the friend much
success, and you all happiness. Gott bless you!” And with that, he
shook hands warmly, shouldered Tina, and went away.

But after the boys were abed, he sat long before his fire with the
tired look on his face and the ‘heimweh’, or homesickness, lying heavy
at his heart. Once, when he remembered Jo as she sat with the little
child in her lap and that new softness in her face, he leaned his head
on his hands a minute, and then roamed about the room, as if in search
of something that he could not find.