“It is not for me, I must not hope it now,” he said to himself, with a
sigh that was almost a groan. Then, as if reproaching himself for the
longing that he could not repress, he went and kissed the two tousled
heads upon the pillow, took down his seldom-used meerschaum, and opened
his Plato.

He did his best and did it manfully, but I don’t think he found that a
pair of rampant boys, a pipe, or even the divine Plato, were very
satisfactory substitutes for wife and child at home.

Early as it was, he was at the station next morning to see Jo off, and
thanks to him, she began her solitary journey with the pleasant memory
of a familiar face smiling its farewell, a bunch of violets to keep her
company, and best of all, the happy thought, “Well, the winter’s gone,
and I’ve written no books, earned no fortune, but I’ve made a friend
worth having and I’ll try to keep him all my life.”

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
HEARTACHE

Whatever his motive might have been, Laurie studied to some purpose
that year, for he graduated with honor, and gave the Latin oration with
the grace of a Phillips and the eloquence of a Demosthenes, so his
friends said. They were all there, his grandfather—oh, so proud—Mr. and
Mrs. March, John and Meg, Jo and Beth, and all exulted over him with
the sincere admiration which boys make light of at the time, but fail
to win from the world by any after-triumphs.

“I’ve got to stay for this confounded supper, but I shall be home early
tomorrow. You’ll come and meet me as usual, girls?” Laurie said, as he
put the sisters into the carriage after the joys of the day were over.
He said ‘girls’, but he meant Jo, for she was the only one who kept up
the old custom. She had not the heart to refuse her splendid,
successful boy anything, and answered warmly...

“I’ll come, Teddy, rain or shine, and march before you, playing ‘Hail
the conquering hero comes’ on a jew’s-harp.”

Laurie thanked her with a look that made her think in a sudden panic,
“Oh, deary me! I know he’ll say something, and then what shall I do?”

Evening meditation and morning work somewhat allayed her fears, and
having decided that she wouldn’t be vain enough to think people were
going to propose when she had given them every reason to know what her
answer would be, she set forth at the appointed time, hoping Teddy
wouldn’t do anything to make her hurt his poor feelings. A call at
Meg’s, and a refreshing sniff and sip at the Daisy and Demijohn, still
further fortified her for the tete-a-tete, but when she saw a stalwart
figure looming in the distance, she had a strong desire to turn about
and run away.

“Where’s the jew’s-harp, Jo?” cried Laurie, as soon as he was within
speaking distance.

“I forgot it.” And Jo took heart again, for that salutation could not
be called lover-like.