“Really, truly, Jo?”

He stopped short, and caught both her hands as he put his question with
a look that she did not soon forget.

“Really, truly, dear.”

They were in the grove now, close by the stile, and when the last words
fell reluctantly from Jo’s lips, Laurie dropped her hands and turned as
if to go on, but for once in his life the fence was too much for him.
So he just laid his head down on the mossy post, and stood so still
that Jo was frightened.

“Oh, Teddy, I’m sorry, so desperately sorry, I could kill myself if it
would do any good! I wish you wouldn’t take it so hard, I can’t help
it. You know it’s impossible for people to make themselves love other
people if they don’t,” cried Jo inelegantly but remorsefully, as she
softly patted his shoulder, remembering the time when he had comforted
her so long ago.

“They do sometimes,” said a muffled voice from the post. “I don’t
believe it’s the right sort of love, and I’d rather not try it,” was
the decided answer.

very soberly, as she sat down on the step of the stile, “Laurie, I want
to tell you something.”

He started as if he had been shot, threw up his head, and cried out in
a fierce tone, “Don’t tell me that, Jo, I can’t bear it now!”

“Tell what?” she asked, wondering at his violence.

“That you love that old man.”

“What old man?” demanded Jo, thinking he must mean his grandfather.

“That devilish Professor you were always writing about. If you say you
love him, I know I shall do something desperate;” and he looked as if
he would keep his word, as he clenched his hands with a wrathful spark
in his eyes.

Jo wanted to laugh, but restrained herself and said warmly, for she
too, was getting excited with all this, “Don’t swear, Teddy! He isn’t
old, nor anything bad, but good and kind, and the best friend I’ve got,
next to you. Pray, don’t fly into a passion. I want to be kind, but I
know I shall get angry if you abuse my Professor. I haven’t the least
idea of loving him or anybody else.”

“But you will after a while, and then what will become of me?”

“You’ll love someone else too, like a sensible boy, and forget all this
trouble.”

“I can’t love anyone else, and I’ll never forget you, Jo, Never!
Never!” with a stamp to emphasize his passionate words.

“What shall I do with him?” sighed Jo, finding that emotions were more
unmanagable than she expected. “You haven’t heard what I wanted to tell
you. Sit down and listen, for indeed I want to do right and make you
happy,” she said, hoping to soothe him with a little reason, which
proved that she knew nothing about love.