“Yes, you will!” persisted Jo. “You’ll get over this after a while, and
find some lovely accomplished girl, who will adore you, and make a fine
mistress for your fine house. I shouldn’t. I’m homely and awkward and
odd and old, and you’d be ashamed of me, and we should quarrel—we can’t
help it even now, you see—and I shouldn’t like elegant society and you
would, and you’d hate my scribbling, and I couldn’t get on without it,
and we should be unhappy, and wish we hadn’t done it, and everything
would be horrid!”

“Anything more?” asked Laurie, finding it hard to listen patiently to
this prophetic burst.

“Nothing more, except that I don’t believe I shall ever marry. I’m
happy as I am, and love my liberty too well to be in a hurry to give it
up for any mortal man.”

“I know better!” broke in Laurie. “You think so now, but there’ll come
a time when you will care for somebody, and you’ll love him
tremendously, and live and die for him. I know you will, it’s your way,
and I shall have to stand by and see it,” and the despairing lover cast
his hat upon the ground with a gesture that would have seemed comical,
if his face had not been so tragic.

“Yes, I will live and die for him, if he ever comes and makes me love
him in spite of myself, and you must do the best you can!” cried Jo,
losing patience with poor Teddy. “I’ve done my best, but you won’t be
reasonable, and it’s selfish of you to keep teasing for what I can’t
give. I shall always be fond of you, very fond indeed, as a friend, but
I’ll never marry you, and the sooner you believe it the better for both
of us—so now!”

That speech was like gunpowder. Laurie looked at her a minute as if he
did not quite know what to do with himself, then turned sharply away,
saying in a desperate sort of tone, “You’ll be sorry some day, Jo.”

“Oh, where are you going?” she cried, for his face frightened her.

“To the devil!” was the consoling answer.

For a minute Jo’s heart stood still, as he swung himself down the bank
toward the river, but it takes much folly, sin or misery to send a
young man to a violent death, and Laurie was not one of the weak sort
who are conquered by a single failure. He had no thought of a
melodramatic plunge, but some blind instinct led him to fling hat and
coat into his boat, and row away with all his might, making better time
up the river than he had done in any race. Jo drew a long breath and
unclasped her hands as she watched the poor fellow trying to outstrip
the trouble which he carried in his heart.