“That will do him good, and he’ll come home in such a tender, penitent
state of mind, that I shan’t dare to see him,” she said, adding, as she
went slowly home, feeling as if she had murdered some innocent thing,
and buried it under the leaves. “Now I must go and prepare Mr. Laurence
to be very kind to my poor boy. I wish he’d love Beth, perhaps he may
in time, but I begin to think I was mistaken about her. Oh dear! How
can girls like to have lovers and refuse them? I think it’s dreadful.”

Being sure that no one could do it so well as herself, she went
straight to Mr. Laurence, told the hard story bravely through, and then
broke down, crying so dismally over her own insensibility that the kind
old gentleman, though sorely disappointed, did not utter a reproach. He
found it difficult to understand how any girl could help loving Laurie,
and hoped she would change her mind, but he knew even better than Jo
that love cannot be forced, so he shook his head sadly and resolved to
carry his boy out of harm’s way, for Young Impetuosity’s parting words
to Jo disturbed him more than he would confess.

When Laurie came home, dead tired but quite composed, his grandfather
met him as if he knew nothing, and kept up the delusion very
successfully for an hour or two. But when they sat together in the
twilight, the time they used to enjoy so much, it was hard work for the
old man to ramble on as usual, and harder still for the young one to
listen to praises of the last year’s success, which to him now seemed
like love’s labor lost. He bore it as long as he could, then went to
his piano and began to play. The windows were open, and Jo, walking in
the garden with Beth, for once understood music better than her sister,
for he played the ‘_Sonata Pathetique_’, and played it as he never did
before.

“That’s very fine, I dare say, but it’s sad enough to make one cry.
Give us something gayer, lad,” said Mr. Laurence, whose kind old heart
was full of sympathy, which he longed to show but knew not how.

Laurie dashed into a livelier strain, played stormily for several
minutes, and would have got through bravely, if in a momentary lull
Mrs. March’s voice had not been heard calling, “Jo, dear, come in. I
want you.”

Just what Laurie longed to say, with a different meaning! As he
listened, he lost his place, the music ended with a broken chord, and
the musician sat silent in the dark.

“I can’t stand this,” muttered the old gentleman. Up he got, groped his
way to the piano, laid a kind hand on either of the broad shoulders,
and said, as gently as a woman, “I know, my boy, I know.”

No answer for an instant, then Laurie asked sharply, “Who told you?”

“Jo herself.”