“Then there’s an end of it!” And he shook off his grandfather’s hands
with an impatient motion, for though grateful for the sympathy, his
man’s pride could not bear a man’s pity.

“Not quite. I want to say one thing, and then there shall be an end of
it,” returned Mr. Laurence with unusual mildness. “You won’t care to
stay at home now, perhaps?”

“I don’t intend to run away from a girl. Jo can’t prevent my seeing
her, and I shall stay and do it as long as I like,” interrupted Laurie
in a defiant tone.

“Not if you are the gentleman I think you. I’m disappointed, but the
girl can’t help it, and the only thing left for you to do is to go away
for a time. Where will you go?”

“Anywhere. I don’t care what becomes of me,” and Laurie got up with a
reckless laugh that grated on his grandfather’s ear.

“Take it like a man, and don’t do anything rash, for God’s sake. Why
not go abroad, as you planned, and forget it?”

“I can’t.”

“But you’ve been wild to go, and I promised you should when you got
through college.”

“Ah, but I didn’t mean to go alone!” and Laurie walked fast through the
room with an expression which it was well his grandfather did not see.

“I don’t ask you to go alone. There’s someone ready and glad to go with
you, anywhere in the world.”

“Who, Sir?” stopping to listen.

“Myself.”

Laurie came back as quickly as he went, and put out his hand, saying
huskily, “I’m a selfish brute, but—you know—Grandfather—”

“Lord help me, yes, I do know, for I’ve been through it all before,
once in my own young days, and then with your father. Now, my dear boy,
just sit quietly down and hear my plan. It’s all settled, and can be
carried out at once,” said Mr. Laurence, keeping hold of the young man,
as if fearful that he would break away as his father had done before
him.

“Well, sir, what is it?” and Laurie sat down, without a sign of
interest in face or voice.

“There is business in London that needs looking after. I meant you
should attend to it, but I can do it better myself, and things here
will get on very well with Brooke to manage them. My partners do almost
everything, I’m merely holding on until you take my place, and can be
off at any time.”

“But you hate traveling, Sir. I can’t ask it of you at your age,” began
Laurie, who was grateful for the sacrifice, but much preferred to go
alone, if he went at all.