While Laurie listlessly watched the procession of priests under their
canopies, white-veiled nuns bearing lighted tapers, and some
brotherhood in blue chanting as they walked, Amy watched him, and felt
a new sort of shyness steal over her, for he was changed, and she could
not find the merry-faced boy she left in the moody-looking man beside
her. He was handsomer than ever and greatly improved, she thought, but
now that the flush of pleasure at meeting her was over, he looked tired
and spiritless—not sick, nor exactly unhappy, but older and graver than
a year or two of prosperous life should have made him. She couldn’t
understand it and did not venture to ask questions, so she shook her
head and touched up her ponies, as the procession wound away across the
arches of the Paglioni bridge and vanished in the church.

“Que pensez-vous?” she said, airing her French, which had improved in
quantity, if not in quality, since she came abroad.

“That mademoiselle has made good use of her time, and the result is
charming,” replied Laurie, bowing with his hand on his heart and an
admiring look.

She blushed with pleasure, but somehow the compliment did not satisfy
her like the blunt praises he used to give her at home, when he
promenaded round her on festival occasions, and told her she was
‘altogether jolly’, with a hearty smile and an approving pat on the
head. She didn’t like the new tone, for though not blase, it sounded
indifferent in spite of the look.

“If that’s the way he’s going to grow up, I wish he’d stay a boy,” she
thought, with a curious sense of disappointment and discomfort, trying
meantime to seem quite easy and gay.

At Avigdor’s she found the precious home letters and, giving the reins
to Laurie, read them luxuriously as they wound up the shady road
between green hedges, where tea roses bloomed as freshly as in June.

“Beth is very poorly, Mother says. I often think I ought to go home,
but they all say ‘stay’. So I do, for I shall never have another chance
like this,” said Amy, looking sober over one page.

“I think you are right, there. You could do nothing at home, and it is
a great comfort to them to know that you are well and happy, and
enjoying so much, my dear.”

He drew a little nearer, and looked more like his old self as he said
that, and the fear that sometimes weighed on Amy’s heart was lightened,
for the look, the act, the brotherly ‘my dear’, seemed to assure her
that if any trouble did come, she would not be alone in a strange land.
Presently she laughed and showed him a small sketch of Jo in her
scribbling suit, with the bow rampantly erect upon her cap, and issuing
from her mouth the words, ‘Genius burns!’.

Laurie smiled, took it, put it in his vest pocket ‘to keep it from
blowing away’, and listened with interest to the lively letter Amy read
him.