In spite of this affliction, she looked unusually gay and graceful as
she glided away. She seldom ran—it did not suit her style, she thought,
for being tall, the stately and Junoesque was more appropriate than the
sportive or piquante. She walked up and down the long saloon while
waiting for Laurie, and once arranged herself under the chandelier,
which had a good effect upon her hair, then she thought better of it,
and went away to the other end of the room, as if ashamed of the
girlish desire to have the first view a propitious one. It so happened
that she could not have done a better thing, for Laurie came in so
quietly she did not hear him, and as she stood at the distant window,
with her head half turned and one hand gathering up her dress, the
slender, white figure against the red curtains was as effective as a
well-placed statue.

“Good evening, Diana!” said Laurie, with the look of satisfaction she
liked to see in his eyes when they rested on her.

“Good evening, Apollo!” she answered, smiling back at him, for he too
looked unusually debonair, and the thought of entering the ballroom on
the arm of such a personable man caused Amy to pity the four plain
Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart.

“Here are your flowers. I arranged them myself, remembering that you
didn’t like what Hannah calls a ‘sot-bookay’,” said Laurie, handing her
a delicate nosegay, in a holder that she had long coveted as she daily
passed it in Cardiglia’s window.

“How kind you are!” she exclaimed gratefully. “If I’d known you were
coming I’d have had something ready for you today, though not as pretty
as this, I’m afraid.”

“Thank you. It isn’t what it should be, but you have improved it,” he
added, as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist.

“Please don’t.”

“I thought you liked that sort of thing.”

“Not from you, it doesn’t sound natural, and I like your old bluntness
better.”

“I’m glad of it,” he answered, with a look of relief, then buttoned her
gloves for her, and asked if his tie was straight, just as he used to
do when they went to parties together at home.

The company assembled in the long salle a manger, that evening, was
such as one sees nowhere but on the Continent. The hospitable Americans
had invited every acquaintance they had in Nice, and having no
prejudice against titles, secured a few to add luster to their
Christmas ball.