The set in which they found themselves was composed of English, and Amy
was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillion, feeling all the
while as if she could dance the tarantella with relish. Laurie resigned
her to the ‘nice little boy’, and went to do his duty to Flo, without
securing Amy for the joys to come, which reprehensible want of
forethought was properly punished, for she immediately engaged herself
till supper, meaning to relent if he then gave any signs penitence. She
showed him her ball book with demure satisfaction when he strolled
instead of rushed up to claim her for the next, a glorious polka
redowa. But his polite regrets didn’t impose upon her, and when she
galloped away with the Count, she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt with
an actual expression of relief.

That was unpardonable, and Amy took no more notice of him for a long
while, except a word now and then when she came to her chaperon between
the dances for a necessary pin or a moment’s rest. Her anger had a good
effect, however, for she hid it under a smiling face, and seemed
unusually blithe and brilliant. Laurie’s eyes followed her with
pleasure, for she neither romped nor sauntered, but danced with spirit
and grace, making the delightsome pastime what it should be. He very
naturally fell to studying her from this new point of view, and before
the evening was half over, had decided that ‘little Amy was going to
make a very charming woman’.

It was a lively scene, for soon the spirit of the social season took
possession of everyone, and Christmas merriment made all faces shine,
hearts happy, and heels light. The musicians fiddled, tooted, and
banged as if they enjoyed it, everybody danced who could, and those who
couldn’t admired their neighbors with uncommon warmth. The air was dark
with Davises, and many Joneses gamboled like a flock of young giraffes.
The golden secretary darted through the room like a meteor with a
dashing French-woman who carpeted the floor with her pink satin train.
The serene Teuton found the supper-table and was happy, eating steadily
through the bill of fare, and dismayed the garcons by the ravages he
committed. But the Emperor’s friend covered himself with glory, for he
danced everything, whether he knew it or not, and introduced impromptu
pirouettes when the figures bewildered him. The boyish abandon of that
stout man was charming to behold, for though he ‘carried weight’, he
danced like an India-rubber ball. He ran, he flew, he pranced, his face
glowed, his bald head shown, his coattails waved wildly, his pumps
actually twinkled in the air, and when the music stopped, he wiped the
drops from his brow, and beamed upon his fellow men like a French
Pickwick without glasses.