Amy and her Pole distinguished themselves by equal enthusiasm but more
graceful agility, and Laurie found himself involuntarily keeping time
to the rhythmic rise and fall of the white slippers as they flew by as
indefatigably as if winged. When little Vladimir finally relinquished
her, with assurances that he was ‘desolated to leave so early’, she was
ready to rest, and see how her recreant knight had borne his
punishment.

It had been successful, for at three-and-twenty, blighted affections
find a balm in friendly society, and young nerves will thrill, young
blood dance, and healthy young spirits rise, when subjected to the
enchantment of beauty, light, music, and motion. Laurie had a waked-up
look as he rose to give her his seat, and when he hurried away to bring
her some supper, she said to herself, with a satisfied smile, “Ah, I
thought that would do him good!”

“You look like Balzac’s ‘_Femme Peinte Par Elle-Meme_’,” he said, as he
fanned her with one hand and held her coffee cup in the other.

“My rouge won’t come off.” and Amy rubbed her brilliant cheek, and
showed him her white glove with a sober simplicity that made him laugh
outright.

“What do you call this stuff?” he asked, touching a fold of her dress
that had blown over his knee.

“Illusion.”

“Good name for it. It’s very pretty—new thing, isn’t it?”

“It’s as old as the hills. You have seen it on dozens of girls, and you
never found out that it was pretty till now—stupide!”

“I never saw it on you before, which accounts for the mistake, you
see.”

“None of that, it is forbidden. I’d rather take coffee than compliments
just now. No, don’t lounge, it makes me nervous.”

Laurie sat bold upright, and meekly took her empty plate feeling an odd
sort of pleasure in having ‘little Amy’ order him about, for she had
lost her shyness now, and felt an irrestible desire to trample on him,
as girls have a delightful way of doing when lords of creation show any
signs of subjection.

“Where did you learn all this sort of thing?” he asked with a quizzical
look.

“As ‘this sort of thing’ is rather a vague expression, would you kindly
explain?” returned Amy, knowing perfectly well what he meant, but
wickedly leaving him to describe what is indescribable.

“Well—the general air, the style, the self-possession,
the—the—illusion—you know”, laughed Laurie, breaking down and helping
himself out of his quandary with the new word.

Amy was gratified, but of course didn’t show it, and demurely answered,
“Foreign life polishes one in spite of one’s self. I study as well as
play, and as for this”—with a little gesture toward her dress—“why,
tulle is cheap, posies to be had for nothing, and I am used to making
the most of my poor little things.”