Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found it a
relief to know that John was having a good time instead of dozing in
the parlor, or tramping about the house and waking the children. But
by-and-by, when the teething worry was over and the idols went to sleep
at proper hours, leaving Mamma time to rest, she began to miss John,
and find her workbasket dull company, when he was not sitting opposite
in his old dressing gown, comfortably scorching his slippers on the
fender. She would not ask him to stay at home, but felt injured because
he did not know that she wanted him without being told, entirely
forgetting the many evenings he had waited for her in vain. She was
nervous and worn out with watching and worry, and in that unreasonable
frame of mind which the best of mothers occasionally experience when
domestic cares oppress them. Want of exercise robs them of
cheerfulness, and too much devotion to that idol of American women, the
teapot, makes them feel as if they were all nerve and no muscle.

“Yes,” she would say, looking in the glass, “I’m getting old and ugly.
John doesn’t find me interesting any longer, so he leaves his faded
wife and goes to see his pretty neighbor, who has no incumbrances.
Well, the babies love me, they don’t care if I am thin and pale and
haven’t time to crimp my hair, they are my comfort, and some day John
will see what I’ve gladly sacrificed for them, won’t he, my precious?”

To which pathetic appeal Daisy would answer with a coo, or Demi with a
crow, and Meg would put by her lamentations for a maternal revel, which
soothed her solitude for the time being. But the pain increased as
politics absorbed John, who was always running over to discuss
interesting points with Scott, quite unconscious that Meg missed him.
Not a word did she say, however, till her mother found her in tears one
day, and insisted on knowing what the matter was, for Meg’s drooping
spirits had not escaped her observation.

“I wouldn’t tell anyone except you, Mother, but I really do need
advice, for if John goes on much longer I might as well be widowed,”
replied Mrs. Brooke, drying her tears on Daisy’s bib with an injured
air.

“Goes on how, my dear?” asked her mother anxiously.

“He’s away all day, and at night when I want to see him, he is
continually going over to the Scotts’. It isn’t fair that I should have
the hardest work, and never any amusement. Men are very selfish, even
the best of them.”

“So are women. Don’t blame John till you see where you are wrong
yourself.”

“But it can’t be right for him to neglect me.”

“Don’t you neglect him?”

“Why, Mother, I thought you’d take my part!”

“So I do, as far as sympathizing goes, but I think the fault is yours,
Meg.”

“I don’t see how.”