“I know it, Meg, for I’ve tried it, and I seldom give advice unless
I’ve proved its practicability. When you and Jo were little, I went on
just as you are, feeling as if I didn’t do my duty unless I devoted
myself wholly to you. Poor Father took to his books, after I had
refused all offers of help, and left me to try my experiment alone. I
struggled along as well as I could, but Jo was too much for me. I
nearly spoiled her by indulgence. You were poorly, and I worried about
you till I fell sick myself. Then Father came to the rescue, quietly
managed everything, and made himself so helpful that I saw my mistake,
and never have been able to get on without him since. That is the
secret of our home happiness. He does not let business wean him from
the little cares and duties that affect us all, and I try not to let
domestic worries destroy my interest in his pursuits. Each do our part
alone in many things, but at home we work together, always.”

“It is so, Mother, and my great wish is to be to my husband and
children what you have been to yours. Show me how, I’ll do anything you
say.”

“You always were my docile daughter. Well, dear, if I were you, I’d let
John have more to do with the management of Demi, for the boy needs
training, and it’s none too soon to begin. Then I’d do what I have
often proposed, let Hannah come and help you. She is a capital nurse,
and you may trust the precious babies to her while you do more
housework. You need the exercise, Hannah would enjoy the rest, and John
would find his wife again. Go out more, keep cheerful as well as busy,
for you are the sunshine-maker of the family, and if you get dismal
there is no fair weather. Then I’d try to take an interest in whatever
John likes—talk with him, let him read to you, exchange ideas, and help
each other in that way. Don’t shut yourself up in a bandbox because you
are a woman, but understand what is going on, and educate yourself to
take your part in the world’s work, for it all affects you and yours.”

“John is so sensible, I’m afraid he will think I’m stupid if I ask
questions about politics and things.”

“I don’t believe he would. Love covers a multitude of sins, and of whom
could you ask more freely than of him? Try it, and see if he doesn’t
find your society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott’s suppers.”

“I will. Poor John! I’m afraid I have neglected him sadly, but I
thought I was right, and he never said anything.”