“He tried not to be selfish, but he has felt rather forlorn, I fancy.
This is just the time, Meg, when young married people are apt to grow
apart, and the very time when they ought to be most together, for the
first tenderness soon wears off, unless care is taken to preserve it.
And no time is so beautiful and precious to parents as the first years
of the little lives given to them to train. Don’t let John be a
stranger to the babies, for they will do more to keep him safe and
happy in this world of trial and temptation than anything else, and
through them you will learn to know and love one another as you should.
Now, dear, good-by. Think over Mother’s preachment, act upon it if it
seems good, and God bless you all.”

Meg did think it over, found it good, and acted upon it, though the
first attempt was not made exactly as she planned to have it. Of course
the children tyrannized over her, and ruled the house as soon as they
found out that kicking and squalling brought them whatever they wanted.
Mamma was an abject slave to their caprices, but Papa was not so easily
subjugated, and occasionally afflicted his tender spouse by an attempt
at paternal discipline with his obstreperous son. For Demi inherited a
trifle of his sire’s firmness of character, we won’t call it obstinacy,
and when he made up his little mind to have or to do anything, all the
king’s horses and all the king’s men could not change that pertinacious
little mind. Mamma thought the dear too young to be taught to conquer
his prejudices, but Papa believed that it never was too soon to learn
obedience. So Master Demi early discovered that when he undertook to
‘wrastle’ with ‘Parpar’, he always got the worst of it, yet like the
Englishman, baby respected the man who conquered him, and loved the
father whose grave “No, no,” was more impressive than all Mamma’s love
pats.

A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a social
evening with John, so she ordered a nice supper, set the parlor in
order, dressed herself prettily, and put the children to bed early,
that nothing should interfere with her experiment. But unfortunately
Demi’s most unconquerable prejudice was against going to bed, and that
night he decided to go on a rampage. So poor Meg sang and rocked, told
stories and tried every sleep-prevoking wile she could devise, but all
in vain, the big eyes wouldn’t shut, and long after Daisy had gone to
byelow, like the chubby little bunch of good nature she was, naughty
Demi lay staring at the light, with the most discouragingly wide-awake
expression of countenance.

“Will Demi lie still like a good boy, while Mamma runs down and gives
poor Papa his tea?” asked Meg, as the hall door softly closed, and the
well-known step went tip-toeing into the dining room.