“Now this won’t do,” said John, hardening his heart against the
engaging little sinner. “We shall never know any peace till that child
learns to go to bed properly. You have made a slave of yourself long
enough. Give him one lesson, and then there will be an end of it. Put
him in his bed and leave him, Meg.”

“He won’t stay there, he never does unless I sit by him.”

“I’ll manage him. Demi, go upstairs, and get into your bed, as Mamma
bids you.”

“S’ant!” replied the young rebel, helping himself to the coveted
‘cakie’, and beginning to eat the same with calm audacity.

“You must never say that to Papa. I shall carry you if you don’t go
yourself.”

“Go ’way, me don’t love Parpar.” and Demi retired to his mother’s
skirts for protection.

But even that refuge proved unavailing, for he was delivered over to
the enemy, with a “Be gentle with him, John,” which struck the culprit
with dismay, for when Mamma deserted him, then the judgment day was at
hand. Bereft of his cake, defrauded of his frolic, and borne away by a
strong hand to that detested bed, poor Demi could not restrain his
wrath, but openly defied Papa, and kicked and screamed lustily all the
way upstairs. The minute he was put into bed on one side, he rolled out
performance was kept up till the young man’s strength gave out, when he
devoted himself to roaring at the top of his voice. This vocal exercise
usually conquered Meg, but John sat as unmoved as the post which is
popularly believed to be deaf. No coaxing, no sugar, no lullaby, no
story, even the light was put out and only the red glow of the fire
enlivened the ‘big dark’ which Demi regarded with curiosity rather than
fear. This new order of things disgusted him, and he howled dismally
for ‘Marmar’, as his angry passions subsided, and recollections of his
tender bondwoman returned to the captive autocrat. The plaintive wail
which succeeded the passionate roar went to Meg’s heart, and she ran up
to say beseechingly...

“Let me stay with him, he’ll be good now, John.”

“No, my dear. I’ve told him he must go to sleep, as you bid him, and he
must, if I stay here all night.”

“But he’ll cry himself sick,” pleaded Meg, reproaching herself for
deserting her boy.

“No, he won’t, he’s so tired he will soon drop off and then the matter
is settled, for he will understand that he has got to mind. Don’t
interfere, I’ll manage him.”

“He’s my child, and I can’t have his spirit broken by harshness.”

“He’s my child, and I won’t have his temper spoiled by indulgence. Go
down, my dear, and leave the boy to me.”

When John spoke in that masterful tone, Meg always obeyed, and never
regretted her docility.

“Please let me kiss him once, John?”