Never mind what John said, or what a very narrow escape the little
bonnet had from utter ruin. All that we have any business to know is
that John did not appear to object, judging from the changes which
gradually took place in the house and its inmates. It was not all
Paradise by any means, but everyone was better for the division of
labor system. The children throve under the paternal rule, for
accurate, steadfast John brought order and obedience into Babydom,
while Meg recovered her spirits and composed her nerves by plenty of
wholesome exercise, a little pleasure, and much confidential
conversation with her sensible husband. Home grew homelike again, and
John had no wish to leave it, unless he took Meg with him. The Scotts
came to the Brookes’ now, and everyone found the little house a
cheerful place, full of happiness, content, and family love. Even
Sallie Moffatt liked to go there. “It is always so quiet and pleasant
here, it does me good, Meg,” she used to say, looking about her with
wistful eyes, as if trying to discover the charm, that she might use it
in her great house, full of splendid loneliness, for there were no
riotous, sunny-faced babies there, and Ned lived in a world of his own,
where there was no place for her.

This household happiness did not come all at once, but John and Meg had
found the key to it, and each year of married life taught them how to
use it, unlocking the treasuries of real home love and mutual
helpfulness, which the poorest may possess, and the richest cannot buy.
This is the sort of shelf on which young wives and mothers may consent
to be laid, safe from the restless fret and fever of the world, finding
loyal lovers in the little sons and daughters who cling to them,
undaunted by sorrow, poverty, or age, walking side by side, through
fair and stormy weather, with a faithful friend, who is, in the true
sense of the good old Saxon word, the ‘house-band’, and learning, as
Meg learned, that a woman’s happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor
the art of ruling it not as a queen, but as a wise wife and mother.

CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE
LAZY LAURENCE