“Try lower down, and pick those that have no thorns,” said Amy,
gathering three of the tiny cream-colored ones that starred the wall
behind her. She put them in his buttonhole as a peace offering, and he
stood a minute looking down at them with a curious expression, for in
the Italian part of his nature there was a touch of superstition, and
he was just then in that state of half-sweet, half-bitter melancholy,
when imaginative young men find significance in trifles and food for
romance everywhere. He had thought of Jo in reaching after the thorny
red rose, for vivid flowers became her, and she had often worn ones
like that from the greenhouse at home. The pale roses Amy gave him were
the sort that the Italians lay in dead hands, never in bridal wreaths,
and for a moment he wondered if the omen was for Jo or for himself, but
the next instant his American common sense got the better of
sentimentality, and he laughed a heartier laugh than Amy had heard
since he came.

“It’s good advice, you’d better take it and save your fingers,” she
said, thinking her speech amused him.

“Thank you, I will,” he answered in jest, and a few months later he did
it in earnest.

“Laurie, when are you going to your grandfather?” she asked presently,
as she settled herself on a rustic seat.

“Very soon.”

“You have said that a dozen times within the last three weeks.”

“I dare say, short answers save trouble.”

“He expects you, and you really ought to go.”

“Hospitable creature! I know it.”

“Then why don’t you do it?”

“Natural depravity, I suppose.”

“Natural indolence, you mean. It’s really dreadful!” and Amy looked
severe.

“Not so bad as it seems, for I should only plague him if I went, so I
might as well stay and plague you a little longer, you can bear it
better, in fact I think it agrees with you excellently,” and Laurie
composed himself for a lounge on the broad ledge of the balustrade.

Amy shook her head and opened her sketchbook with an air of
resignation, but she had made up her mind to lecture ‘that boy’ and in
a minute she began again.

“What are you doing just now?”

“Watching lizards.”

“No, no. I mean what do you intend and wish to do?”

“Smoke a cigarette, if you’ll allow me.”

“How provoking you are! I don’t approve of cigars and I will only allow
it on condition that you let me put you into my sketch. I need a
figure.”

“With all the pleasure in life. How will you have me, full length or
three-quarters, on my head or my heels? I should respectfully suggest a
recumbent posture, then put yourself in also and call it ‘Dolce far
niente’.”

“Stay as you are, and go to sleep if you like. I intend to work hard,”
said Amy in her most energetic tone.

“What delightful enthusiasm!” and he leaned against a tall urn with an
air of entire satisfaction.