“What would Jo say if she saw you now?” asked Amy impatiently, hoping
to stir him up by the mention of her still more energetic sister’s
name.

“As usual, ‘Go away, Teddy. I’m busy!’” He laughed as he spoke, but the
laugh was not natural, and a shade passed over his face, for the
utterance of the familiar name touched the wound that was not healed
yet. Both tone and shadow struck Amy, for she had seen and heard them
before, and now she looked up in time to catch a new expression on
Laurie’s face—a hard bitter look, full of pain, dissatisfaction, and
regret. It was gone before she could study it and the listless
expression back again. She watched him for a moment with artistic
pleasure, thinking how like an Italian he looked, as he lay basking in
the sun with uncovered head and eyes full of southern dreaminess, for
he seemed to have forgotten her and fallen into a reverie.

“You look like the effigy of a young knight asleep on his tomb,” she
said, carefully tracing the well-cut profile defined against the dark
stone.

“Wish I was!”

“That’s a foolish wish, unless you have spoiled your life. You are so
changed, I sometimes think—” there Amy stopped, with a half-timid,
half-wistful look, more significant than her unfinished speech.

Laurie saw and understood the affectionate anxiety which she hesitated
to express, and looking straight into her eyes, said, just as he used
to say it to her mother, “It’s all right, ma’am.”

That satisfied her and set at rest the doubts that had begun to worry
her lately. It also touched her, and she showed that it did, by the
cordial tone in which she said...

“I’m glad of that! I didn’t think you’d been a very bad boy, but I
fancied you might have wasted money at that wicked Baden-Baden, lost
your heart to some charming Frenchwoman with a husband, or got into
some of the scrapes that young men seem to consider a necessary part of
a foreign tour. Don’t stay out there in the sun, come and lie on the
grass here and ‘let us be friendly’, as Jo used to say when we got in
the sofa corner and told secrets.”

Laurie obediently threw himself down on the turf, and began to amuse
himself by sticking daisies into the ribbons of Amy’s hat, that lay
there.

“I’m all ready for the secrets.” and he glanced up with a decided
expression of interest in his eyes.

“I’ve none to tell. You may begin.”

“Haven’t one to bless myself with. I thought perhaps you’d had some
news from home..”

“You have heard all that has come lately. Don’t you hear often? I
fancied Jo would send you volumes.”