“She’s very busy. I’m roving about so, it’s impossible to be regular,
you know. When do you begin your great work of art, Raphaella?” he
asked, changing the subject abruptly after another pause, in which he
had been wondering if Amy knew his secret and wanted to talk about it.

“Never,” she answered, with a despondent but decided air. “Rome took
all the vanity out of me, for after seeing the wonders there, I felt
too insignificant to live and gave up all my foolish hopes in despair.”

“Why should you, with so much energy and talent?”

“That’s just why, because talent isn’t genius, and no amount of energy
can make it so. I want to be great, or nothing. I won’t be a
common-place dauber, so I don’t intend to try any more.”

“And what are you going to do with yourself now, if I may ask?”

“Polish up my other talents, and be an ornament to society, if I get
the chance.”

It was a characteristic speech, and sounded daring, but audacity
becomes young people, and Amy’s ambition had a good foundation. Laurie
smiled, but he liked the spirit with which she took up a new purpose
when a long-cherished one died, and spent no time lamenting.

“Good! And here is where Fred Vaughn comes in, I fancy.”

Amy preserved a discreet silence, but there was a conscious look in her
downcast face that made Laurie sit up and say gravely, “Now I’m going
to play brother, and ask questions. May I?”

“I don’t promise to answer.”

“Your face will, if your tongue won’t. You aren’t woman of the world
enough yet to hide your feelings, my dear. I heard rumors about Fred
and you last year, and it’s my private opinion that if he had not been
called home so suddenly and detained so long, something would have come
of it, hey?”

“That’s not for me to say,” was Amy’s grim reply, but her lips would
smile, and there was a traitorous sparkle of the eye which betrayed
that she knew her power and enjoyed the knowledge.

“You are not engaged, I hope?” and Laurie looked very elder-brotherly
and grave all of a sudden.

“No.”

“But you will be, if he comes back and goes properly down on his knees,
won’t you?”

“Very likely.”

“Then you are fond of old Fred?”

“I could be, if I tried.”

“But you don’t intend to try till the proper moment? Bless my soul,
what unearthly prudence! He’s a good fellow, Amy, but not the man I
fancied you’d like.”

“He is rich, a gentleman, and has delightful manners,” began Amy,
trying to be quite cool and dignified, but feeling a little ashamed of
herself, in spite of the sincerity of her intentions.

“I understand. Queens of society can’t get on without money, so you
mean to make a good match, and start in that way? Quite right and
proper, as the world goes, but it sounds odd from the lips of one of
your mother’s girls.”

“True, nevertheless.”