“You don’t look as if you’d had much. At any rate, you are none the
better for it, as far as I can see. I said when we first met that you
had improved. Now I take it all back, for I don’t think you half so
nice as when I left you at home. You have grown abominably lazy, you
like gossip, and waste time on frivolous things, you are contented to
be petted and admired by silly people, instead of being loved and
respected by wise ones. With money, talent, position, health, and
beauty, ah you like that old Vanity! But it’s the truth, so I can’t
help saying it, with all these splendid things to use and enjoy, you
can find nothing to do but dawdle, and instead of being the man you
ought to be, you are only...” there she stopped, with a look that had
both pain and pity in it.

“Saint Laurence on a gridiron,” added Laurie, blandly finishing the
sentence. But the lecture began to take effect, for there was a
wide-awake sparkle in his eyes now and a half-angry, half-injured
expression replaced the former indifference.

“I supposed you’d take it so. You men tell us we are angels, and say we
can make you what we will, but the instant we honestly try to do you
good, you laugh at us and won’t listen, which proves how much your
flattery is worth.” Amy spoke bitterly, and turned her back on the
exasperating martyr at her feet.

In a minute a hand came down over the page, so that she could not draw,
and Laurie’s voice said, with a droll imitation of a penitent child, “I
will be good, oh, I will be good!”

But Amy did not laugh, for she was in earnest, and tapping on the
outspread hand with her pencil, said soberly, “Aren’t you ashamed of a
hand like that? It’s as soft and white as a woman’s, and looks as if it
never did anything but wear Jouvin’s best gloves and pick flowers for
ladies. You are not a dandy, thank Heaven, so I’m glad to see there are
no diamonds or big seal rings on it, only the little old one Jo gave
you so long ago. Dear soul, I wish she was here to help me!”

“So do I!”