The hand vanished as suddenly as it came, and there was energy enough
in the echo of her wish to suit even Amy. She glanced down at him with
a new thought in her mind, but he was lying with his hat half over his
face, as if for shade, and his mustache hid his mouth. She only saw his
chest rise and fall, with a long breath that might have been a sigh,
and the hand that wore the ring nestled down into the grass, as if to
hide something too precious or too tender to be spoken of. All in a
minute various hints and trifles assumed shape and significance in
Amy’s mind, and told her what her sister never had confided to her. She
remembered that Laurie never spoke voluntarily of Jo, she recalled the
shadow on his face just now, the change in his character, and the
wearing of the little old ring which was no ornament to a handsome
hand. Girls are quick to read such signs and feel their eloquence. Amy
had fancied that perhaps a love trouble was at the bottom of the
alteration, and now she was sure of it. Her keen eyes filled, and when
she spoke again, it was in a voice that could be beautifully soft and
kind when she chose to make it so.

“I know I have no right to talk so to you, Laurie, and if you weren’t
the sweetest-tempered fellow in the world, you’d be very angry with me.
But we are all so fond and proud of you, I couldn’t bear to think they
should be disappointed in you at home as I have been, though, perhaps
they would understand the change better than I do.”

“I think they would,” came from under the hat, in a grim tone, quite as
touching as a broken one.

“They ought to have told me, and not let me go blundering and scolding,
when I should have been more kind and patient than ever. I never did
like that Miss Randal and now I hate her!” said artful Amy, wishing to
be sure of her facts this time.

“Hang Miss Randal!” and Laurie knocked the hat off his face with a look
that left no doubt of his sentiments toward that young lady.

“I beg pardon, I thought...” and there she paused diplomatically.

“No, you didn’t, you knew perfectly well I never cared for anyone but
Jo,” Laurie said that in his old, impetuous tone, and turned his face
away as he spoke.

“I did think so, but as they never said anything about it, and you came
away, I supposed I was mistaken. And Jo wouldn’t be kind to you? Why, I
was sure she loved you dearly.”

“She was kind, but not in the right way, and it’s lucky for her she
didn’t love me, if I’m the good-for-nothing fellow you think me. It’s
her fault though, and you may tell her so.”