When morning came, for the first time in many months the fire was out,
Jo’s place was empty, and the room was very still. But a bird sang
blithely on a budding bough, close by, the snowdrops blossomed freshly
at the window, and the spring sunshine streamed in like a benediction
over the placid face upon the pillow, a face so full of painless peace
that those who loved it best smiled through their tears, and thanked
God that Beth was well at last.

CHAPTER FORTY-ONE
LEARNING TO FORGET

Amy’s lecture did Laurie good, though, of course, he did not own it
till long afterward. Men seldom do, for when women are the advisers,
the lords of creation don’t take the advice till they have persuaded
themselves that it is just what they intended to do. Then they act upon
it, and, if it succeeds, they give the weaker vessel half the credit of
it. If it fails, they generously give her the whole. Laurie went back
to his grandfather, and was so dutifully devoted for several weeks that
the old gentleman declared the climate of Nice had improved him
wonderfully, and he had better try it again. There was nothing the
young gentleman would have liked better, but elephants could not have
dragged him back after the scolding he had received. Pride forbid, and
whenever the longing grew very strong, he fortified his resolution by
repeating the words that had made the deepest impression—“I despise
you.” “Go and do something splendid that will make her love you.”

Laurie turned the matter over in his mind so often that he soon brought
himself to confess that he had been selfish and lazy, but then when a
man has a great sorrow, he should be indulged in all sorts of vagaries
till he has lived it down. He felt that his blighted affections were
quite dead now, and though he should never cease to be a faithful
mourner, there was no occasion to wear his weeds ostentatiously. Jo
wouldn’t love him, but he might make her respect and admire him by
doing something which should prove that a girl’s ‘No’ had not spoiled
his life. He had always meant to do something, and Amy’s advice was
quite unnecessary. He had only been waiting till the aforesaid blighted
affections were decently interred. That being done, he felt that he was
ready to ‘hide his stricken heart, and still toil on’.