If all brothers were treated as well as Laurie was at this period, they
would be a much happier race of beings than they are. Amy never
lectured now. She asked his opinion on all subjects, she was interested
in everything he did, made charming little presents for him, and sent
him two letters a week, full of lively gossip, sisterly confidences,
and captivating sketches of the lovely scenes about her. As few
brothers are complimented by having their letters carried about in
their sister’s pockets, read and reread diligently, cried over when
short, kissed when long, and treasured carefully, we will not hint that
Amy did any of these fond and foolish things. But she certainly did
grow a little pale and pensive that spring, lost much of her relish for
society, and went out sketching alone a good deal. She never had much
to show when she came home, but was studying nature, I dare say, while
she sat for hours, with her hands folded, on the terrace at Valrosa, or
absently sketched any fancy that occurred to her, a stalwart knight
carved on a tomb, a young man asleep in the grass, with his hat over
his eyes, or a curly haired girl in gorgeous array, promenading down a
ballroom on the arm of a tall gentleman, both faces being left a blur
according to the last fashion in art, which was safe but not altogether
satisfactory.

Her aunt thought that she regretted her answer to Fred, and finding
denials useless and explanations impossible, Amy left her to think what
she liked, taking care that Laurie should know that Fred had gone to
Egypt. That was all, but he understood it, and looked relieved, as he
said to himself, with a venerable air...

“I was sure she would think better of it. Poor old fellow! I’ve been
through it all, and I can sympathize.”

With that he heaved a great sigh, and then, as if he had discharged his
duty to the past, put his feet up on the sofa and enjoyed Amy’s letter
luxuriously.

While these changes were going on abroad, trouble had come at home. But
the letter telling that Beth was failing never reached Amy, and when
the next found her the grass was green above her sister. The sad news
met her at Vevay, for the heat had driven them from Nice in May, and
they had travelled slowly to Switzerland, by way of Genoa and the
Italian lakes. She bore it very well, and quietly submitted to the
family decree that she should not shorten her visit, for since it was
too late to say goodbye to Beth, she had better stay, and let absence
soften her sorrow. But her heart was very heavy, she longed to be at
home, and every day looked wistfully across the lake, waiting for
Laurie to come and comfort her.