“I’m not tired, but you may take an oar, if you like. There’s room
enough, though I have to sit nearly in the middle, else the boat won’t
trim,” returned Laurie, as if he rather liked the arrangement.

Feeling that she had not mended matters much, Amy took the offered
third of a seat, shook her hair over her face, and accepted an oar. She
rowed as well as she did many other things, and though she used both
hands, and Laurie but one, the oars kept time, and the boat went
smoothly through the water.

“How well we pull together, don’t we?” said Amy, who objected to
silence just then.

“So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat. Will you,
Amy?” very tenderly.

“Yes, Laurie,” very low.

Then they both stopped rowing, and unconsciously added a pretty little
tableau of human love and happiness to the dissolving views reflected
in the lake.

CHAPTER FORTY-TWO
ALL ALONE

It was easy to promise self-abnegation when self was wrapped up in
another, and heart and soul were purified by a sweet example. But when
the helpful voice was silent, the daily lesson over, the beloved
presence gone, and nothing remained but loneliness and grief, then Jo
found her promise very hard to keep. How could she ‘comfort Father and
Mother’ when her own heart ached with a ceaseless longing for her
sister, how could she ‘make the house cheerful’ when all its light and
warmth and beauty seemed to have deserted it when Beth left the old
home for the new, and where in all the world could she ‘find some
useful, happy work to do’, that would take the place of the loving
service which had been its own reward? She tried in a blind, hopeless
way to do her duty, secretly rebelling against it all the while, for it
seemed unjust that her few joys should be lessened, her burdens made
heavier, and life get harder and harder as she toiled along. Some
people seemed to get all sunshine, and some all shadow. It was not
fair, for she tried more than Amy to be good, but never got any reward,
only disappointment, trouble and hard work.

Poor Jo, these were dark days to her, for something like despair came
over her when she thought of spending all her life in that quiet house,
devoted to humdrum cares, a few small pleasures, and the duty that
never seemed to grow any easier. “I can’t do it. I wasn’t meant for a
life like this, and I know I shall break away and do something
desperate if somebody doesn’t come and help me,” she said to herself,
when her first efforts failed and she fell into the moody, miserable
state of mind which often comes when strong wills have to yield to the
inevitable.