Other helps had Jo—humble, wholesome duties and delights that would not
be denied their part in serving her, and which she slowly learned to
see and value. Brooms and dishcloths never could be as distasteful as
they once had been, for Beth had presided over both, and something of
her housewifely spirit seemed to linger around the little mop and the
old brush, never thrown away. As she used them, Jo found herself
humming the songs Beth used to hum, imitating Beth’s orderly ways, and
giving the little touches here and there that kept everything fresh and
cozy, which was the first step toward making home happy, though she
didn’t know it till Hannah said with an approving squeeze of the
hand...

“You thoughtful creeter, you’re determined we shan’t miss that dear
lamb ef you can help it. We don’t say much, but we see it, and the Lord
will bless you for’t, see ef He don’t.”

As they sat sewing together, Jo discovered how much improved her sister
Meg was, how well she could talk, how much she knew about good, womanly
impulses, thoughts, and feelings, how happy she was in husband and
children, and how much they were all doing for each other.

“Marriage is an excellent thing, after all. I wonder if I should
blossom out half as well as you have, if I tried it?, always
_‘perwisin’_ I could,” said Jo, as she constructed a kite for Demi in
the topsy-turvy nursery.

“It’s just what you need to bring out the tender womanly half of your
nature, Jo. You are like a chestnut burr, prickly outside, but
silky-soft within, and a sweet kernal, if one can only get at it. Love
will make you show your heart one day, and then the rough burr will
fall off.”

“Frost opens chestnut burrs, ma’am, and it takes a good shake to bring
them down. Boys go nutting, and I don’t care to be bagged by them,”
returned Jo, pasting away at the kite which no wind that blows would
ever carry up, for Daisy had tied herself on as a bob.

Meg laughed, for she was glad to see a glimmer of Jo’s old spirit, but
she felt it her duty to enforce her opinion by every argument in her
power, and the sisterly chats were not wasted, especially as two of
Meg’s most effective arguments were the babies, whom Jo loved tenderly.
Grief is the best opener of some hearts, and Jo’s was nearly ready for
the bag. A little more sunshine to ripen the nut, then, not a boy’s
impatient shake, but a man’s hand reached up to pick it gently from the
burr, and find the kernal sound and sweet. If she suspected this, she
would have shut up tight, and been more prickly than ever, fortunately
she wasn’t thinking about herself, so when the time came, down she
dropped.