“It’s no use your going out in the cold to get Amy, for they are all
coming up presently. I couldn’t wait. I wanted to be the one to tell
you the grand surprise, and have ‘first skim’ as we used to say when we
squabbled about the cream.”

“Of course you did, and spoiled your story by beginning at the wrong
end. Now, start right, and tell me how it all happened. I’m pining to
know.”

“Well, I did it to please Amy,” began Laurie, with a twinkle that made
Jo exclaim...

“Fib number one. Amy did it to please you. Go on, and tell the truth,
if you can, sir.”

“Now she’s beginning to marm it. Isn’t it jolly to hear her?” said
Laurie to the fire, and the fire glowed and sparkled as if it quite
agreed. “It’s all the same, you know, she and I being one. We planned
to come home with the Carrols, a month or more ago, but they suddenly
changed their minds, and decided to pass another winter in Paris. But
Grandpa wanted to come home. He went to please me, and I couldn’t let
him go alone, neither could I leave Amy, and Mrs. Carrol had got
English notions about chaperons and such nonsense, and wouldn’t let Amy
come with us. So I just settled the difficulty by saying, ‘Let’s be
married, and then we can do as we like’.”

“Of course you did. You always have things to suit you.”

“Not always,” and something in Laurie’s voice made Jo say hastily...

“How did you ever get Aunt to agree?”

“It was hard work, but between us, we talked her over, for we had heaps
of good reasons on our side. There wasn’t time to write and ask leave,
but you all liked it, had consented to it by-and-by, and it was only
‘taking time by the fetlock’, as my wife says.”

“Aren’t we proud of those two words, and don’t we like to say them?”
interrupted Jo, addressing the fire in her turn, and watching with
delight the happy light it seemed to kindle in the eyes that had been
so tragically gloomy when she saw them last.

“A trifle, perhaps, she’s such a captivating little woman I can’t help
being proud of her. Well, then Uncle and Aunt were there to play
propriety. We were so absorbed in one another we were of no mortal use
apart, and that charming arrangement would make everything easy all
round, so we did it.”

“When, where, how?” asked Jo, in a fever of feminine interest and
curiosity, for she could not realize it a particle.

“Six weeks ago, at the American consul’s, in Paris, a very quiet
wedding of course, for even in our happiness we didn’t forget dear
little Beth.”

Jo put her hand in his as he said that, and Laurie gently smoothed the
little red pillow, which he remembered well.

“Why didn’t you let us know afterward?” asked Jo, in a quieter tone,
when they had sat quite still a minute.