“If I shouldn’t be in the way, it would be very pleasant. I begin to
feel quite young already, for somehow all my troubles seemed to fly
away when you came. You always were a comfort, Teddy,” and Jo leaned
her head on his shoulder, just as she did years ago, when Beth lay ill
and Laurie told her to hold on to him.

He looked down at her, wondering if she remembered the time, but Jo was
smiling to herself, as if in truth her troubles had all vanished at his
coming.

“You are the same Jo still, dropping tears about one minute, and
laughing the next. You look a little wicked now. What is it, Grandma?”

“I was wondering how you and Amy get on together.”

“Like angels!”

“Yes, of course, but which rules?”

“I don’t mind telling you that she does now, at least I let her think
so, it pleases her, you know. By-and-by we shall take turns, for
marriage, they say, halves one’s rights and doubles one’s duties.”

“You’ll go on as you begin, and Amy will rule you all the days of your
life.”

“Well, she does it so imperceptibly that I don’t think I shall mind
much. She is the sort of woman who knows how to rule well. In fact, I
rather like it, for she winds one round her finger as softly and
prettily as a skein of silk, and makes you feel as if she was doing you
a favor all the while.”

“That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and enjoying
it!” cried Jo, with uplifted hands.

It was good to see Laurie square his shoulders, and smile with
masculine scorn at that insinuation, as he replied, with his “high and
mighty” air, “Amy is too well-bred for that, and I am not the sort of
man to submit to it. My wife and I respect ourselves and one another
too much ever to tyrannize or quarrel.”

Jo liked that, and thought the new dignity very becoming, but the boy
seemed changing very fast into the man, and regret mingled with her
pleasure.

“I am sure of that. Amy and you never did quarrel as we used to. She is
the sun and I the wind, in the fable, and the sun managed the man best,
you remember.”

“She can blow him up as well as shine on him,” laughed Laurie. “Such a
lecture as I got at Nice! I give you my word it was a deal worse than
any of your scoldings, a regular rouser. I’ll tell you all about it
sometime, she never will, because after telling me that she despised
and was ashamed of me, she lost her heart to the despicable party and
married the good-for-nothing.”

“What baseness! Well, if she abuses you, come to me, and I’ll defend
you.”