“Young man, when I first had the honor of making your acquaintance you
hit me in the face. Now I demand the satisfaction of a gentleman,” and
with that the tall uncle proceeded to toss and tousle the small nephew
in a way that damaged his philosophical dignity as much as it delighted
his boyish soul.

“Blest if she ain’t in silk from head to foot; ain’t it a relishin’
sight to see her settin’ there as fine as a fiddle, and hear folks
calling little Amy ‘Mis. Laurence!’” muttered old Hannah, who could not
resist frequent “peeks” through the slide as she set the table in a
most decidedly promiscuous manner.

Mercy on us, how they did talk! first one, then the other, then all
burst out together—trying to tell the history of three years in half an
hour. It was fortunate that tea was at hand, to produce a lull and
provide refreshment—for they would have been hoarse and faint if they
had gone on much longer. Such a happy procession as filed away into the
little dining room! Mr. March proudly escorted Mrs. Laurence. Mrs.
March as proudly leaned on the arm of ‘my son’. The old gentleman took
Jo, with a whispered, “You must be my girl now,” and a glance at the
empty corner by the fire, that made Jo whisper back, “I’ll try to fill
her place, sir.”

The twins pranced behind, feeling that the millennium was at hand, for
everyone was so busy with the newcomers that they were left to revel at
their own sweet will, and you may be sure they made the most of the
opportunity. Didn’t they steal sips of tea, stuff gingerbread ad
libitum, get a hot biscuit apiece, and as a crowning trespass, didn’t
they each whisk a captivating little tart into their tiny pockets,
there to stick and crumble treacherously, teaching them that both human
nature and a pastry are frail? Burdened with the guilty consciousness
of the sequestered tarts, and fearing that Dodo’s sharp eyes would
pierce the thin disguise of cambric and merino which hid their booty,
the little sinners attached themselves to ‘Dranpa’, who hadn’t his
spectacles on. Amy, who was handed about like refreshments, returned to
the parlor on Father Laurence’s arm. The others paired off as before,
and this arrangement left Jo companionless. She did not mind it at the
minute, for she lingered to answer Hannah’s eager inquiry.

“Will Miss Amy ride in her coop (coupe), and use all them lovely silver
dishes that’s stored away over yander?”

“Shouldn’t wonder if she drove six white horses, ate off gold plate,
and wore diamonds and point lace every day. Teddy thinks nothing too
good for her,” returned Jo with infinite satisfaction.

“No more there is! Will you have hash or fishballs for breakfast?”
asked Hannah, who wisely mingled poetry and prose.