“I don’t care,” and Jo shut the door, feeling that food was an
uncongenial topic just then. She stood a minute looking at the party
vanishing above, and as Demi’s short plaid legs toiled up the last
stair, a sudden sense of loneliness came over her so strongly that she
looked about her with dim eyes, as if to find something to lean upon,
for even Teddy had deserted her. If she had known what birthday gift
was coming every minute nearer and nearer, she would not have said to
herself, “I’ll weep a little weep when I go to bed. It won’t do to be
dismal now.” Then she drew her hand over her eyes, for one of her
boyish habits was never to know where her handkerchief was, and had
just managed to call up a smile when there came a knock at the porch
door.

She opened with hospitable haste, and started as if another ghost had
come to surprise her, for there stood a tall bearded gentleman, beaming
on her from the darkness like a midnight sun.

“Oh, Mr. Bhaer, I am so glad to see you!” cried Jo, with a clutch, as
if she feared the night would swallow him up before she could get him
in.

“And I to see Miss Marsch, but no, you haf a party,” and the Professor
paused as the sound of voices and the tap of dancing feet came down to
them.

“No, we haven’t, only the family. My sister and friends have just come
home, and we are all very happy. Come in, and make one of us.”

Though a very social man, I think Mr. Bhaer would have gone decorously
away, and come again another day, but how could he, when Jo shut the
door behind him, and bereft him of his hat? Perhaps her face had
something to do with it, for she forgot to hide her joy at seeing him,
and showed it with a frankness that proved irresistible to the solitary
man, whose welcome far exceeded his boldest hopes.

“If I shall not be Monsieur de Trop, I will so gladly see them all. You
haf been ill, my friend?”

He put the question abruptly, for, as Jo hung up his coat, the light
fell on her face, and he saw a change in it.

“Not ill, but tired and sorrowful. We have had trouble since I saw you
last.”

“Ah, yes, I know. My heart was sore for you when I heard that,” and he
shook hands again, with such a sympathetic face that Jo felt as if no
comfort could equal the look of the kind eyes, the grasp of the big,
warm hand.

“Father, Mother, this is my friend, Professor Bhaer,” she said, with a
face and tone of such irrepressible pride and pleasure that she might
as well have blown a trumpet and opened the door with a flourish.