The song was considered a great success, and the singer retired covered
with laurels. But a few minutes afterward, he forgot his manners
entirely, and stared at Amy putting on her bonnet, for she had been
introduced simply as ‘my sister’, and no one had called her by her new
name since he came. He forgot himself still further when Laurie said,
in his most gracious manner, at parting...

“My wife and I are very glad to meet you, sir. Please remember that
there is always a welcome waiting for you over the way.”

Then the Professor thanked him so heartily, and looked so suddenly
illuminated with satisfaction, that Laurie thought him the most
delightfully demonstrative old fellow he ever met.

“I too shall go, but I shall gladly come again, if you will gif me
leave, dear madame, for a little business in the city will keep me here
some days.”

He spoke to Mrs. March, but he looked at Jo, and the mother’s voice
gave as cordial an assent as did the daughter’s eyes, for Mrs. March
was not so blind to her children’s interest as Mrs. Moffat supposed.

“I suspect that is a wise man,” remarked Mr. March, with placid
satisfaction, from the hearthrug, after the last guest had gone.

“I know he is a good one,” added Mrs. March, with decided approval, as
she wound up the clock.

“I thought you’d like him,” was all Jo said, as she slipped away to her
bed.

She wondered what the business was that brought Mr. Bhaer to the city,
and finally decided that he had been appointed to some great honor,
somewhere, but had been too modest to mention the fact. If she had seen
his face when, safe in his own room, he looked at the picture of a
severe and rigid young lady, with a good deal of hair, who appeared to
be gazing darkly into futurity, it might have thrown some light upon
the subject, especially when he turned off the gas, and kissed the
picture in the dark.

CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR
MY LORD AND LADY

“Please, Madam Mother, could you lend me my wife for half an hour? The
luggage has come, and I’ve been making hay of Amy’s Paris finery,
trying to find some things I want,” said Laurie, coming in the next day
to find Mrs. Laurence sitting in her mother’s lap, as if being made
‘the baby’ again.

“Certainly. Go, dear, I forgot that you have any home but this,” and
Mrs. March pressed the white hand that wore the wedding ring, as if
asking pardon for her maternal covetousness.

“I shouldn’t have come over if I could have helped it, but I can’t get
on without my little woman any more than a...”

“Weathercock can without the wind,” suggested Jo, as he paused for a
simile. Jo had grown quite her own saucy self again since Teddy came
home.