There might have been cause for maternal anxiety, if Demi had not given
convincing proofs that he was a true boy, as well as a budding
philosopher, for often, after a discussion which caused Hannah to
prophesy, with ominous nods, “That child ain’t long for this world,” he
would turn about and set her fears at rest by some of the pranks with
which dear, dirty, naughty little rascals distract and delight their
parent’s souls.

Meg made many moral rules, and tried to keep them, but what mother was
ever proof against the winning wiles, the ingenious evasions, or the
tranquil audacity of the miniature men and women who so early show
themselves accomplished Artful Dodgers?

“No more raisins, Demi. They’ll make you sick,” says Mamma to the young
person who offers his services in the kitchen with unfailing regularity
on plum-pudding day.

“Me likes to be sick.”

“I don’t want to have you, so run away and help Daisy make patty
cakes.”

He reluctantly departs, but his wrongs weigh upon his spirit, and

“Now you have been good children, and I’ll play anything you like,”
says Meg, as she leads her assistant cooks upstairs, when the pudding
is safely bouncing in the pot.

“Truly, Marmar?” asks Demi, with a brilliant idea in his well-powdered
head.

“Yes, truly. Anything you say,” replies the shortsighted parent,
preparing herself to sing, “The Three Little Kittens” half a dozen
times over, or to take her family to “Buy a penny bun,” regardless of
wind or limb. But Demi corners her by the cool reply...

“Then we’ll go and eat up all the raisins.”

Aunt Dodo was chief playmate and confidante of both children, and the
trio turned the little house topsy-turvy. Aunt Amy was as yet only a
name to them, Aunt Beth soon faded into a pleasantly vague memory, but
Aunt Dodo was a living reality, and they made the most of her, for
which compliment she was deeply grateful. But when Mr. Bhaer came, Jo
neglected her playfellows, and dismay and desolation fell upon their
little souls. Daisy, who was fond of going about peddling kisses, lost
her best customer and became bankrupt. Demi, with infantile
penetration, soon discovered that Dodo like to play with ‘the bear-man’
better than she did him, but though hurt, he concealed his anguish, for
he hadn’t the heart to insult a rival who kept a mine of chocolate
drops in his waistcoat pocket, and a watch that could be taken out of
its case and freely shaken by ardent admirers.

Some persons might have considered these pleasing liberties as bribes,
but Demi didn’t see it in that light, and continued to patronize the
‘the bear-man’ with pensive affability, while Daisy bestowed her small
affections upon him at the third call, and considered his shoulder her
throne, his arm her refuge, his gifts treasures surpassing worth.