Jo couldn’t even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but sternly tried
to quench her feelings, and failing to do so, led a somewhat agitated
life. She was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering,
after her many and vehement declarations of independence. Laurie was
her especial dread, but thanks to the new manager, he behaved with
praiseworthy propriety, never called Mr. Bhaer ‘a capital old fellow’
in public, never alluded, in the remotest manner, to Jo’s improved
appearance, or expressed the least surprise at seeing the Professor’s
hat on the Marches’ table nearly every evening. But he exulted in
private and longed for the time to come when he could give Jo a piece
of plate, with a bear and a ragged staff on it as an appropriate coat
of arms.

For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like
regularity. Then he stayed away for three whole days, and made no sign,
a proceeding which caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to become
pensive, at first, and then—alas for romance—very cross.

“Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came. It’s
nothing to me, of course, but I should think he would have come and bid
us goodbye like a gentleman,” she said to herself, with a despairing
look at the gate, as she put on her things for the customary walk one
dull afternoon.

“You’d better take the little umbrella, dear. It looks like rain,” said
her mother, observing that she had on her new bonnet, but not alluding
to the fact.

“Yes, Marmee, do you want anything in town? I’ve got to run in and get
some paper,” returned Jo, pulling out the bow under her chin before the
glass as an excuse for not looking at her mother.

“Yes, I want some twilled silesia, a paper of number nine needles, and
two yards of narrow lavender ribbon. Have you got your thick boots on,
and something warm under your cloak?”

“I believe so,” answered Jo absently.

“If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer, bring him home to tea. I quite long
to see the dear man,” added Mrs. March.

Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother, and walk
rapidly away, thinking with a glow of gratitude, in spite of her
heartache, “How good she is to me! What do girls do who haven’t any
mothers to help them through their troubles?”