The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses, banks,
and wholesale warerooms, where gentlemen most do congregate, but Jo
found herself in that part of the city before she did a single errand,
loitering along as if waiting for someone, examining engineering
instruments in one window and samples of wool in another, with most
unfeminine interest, tumbling over barrels, being half-smothered by
descending bales, and hustled unceremoniously by busy men who looked as
if they wondered ‘how the deuce she got there’. A drop of rain on her
cheek recalled her thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons. For
the drops continued to fall, and being a woman as well as a lover, she
felt that, though it was too late to save her heart, she might her
bonnet. Now she remembered the little umbrella, which she had forgotten
to take in her hurry to be off, but regret was unavailing, and nothing
could be done but borrow one or submit to a drenching. She looked up at
the lowering sky, down at the crimson bow already flecked with black,
forward along the muddy street, then one long, lingering look behind,
at a certain grimy warehouse, with ‘Hoffmann, Swartz, & Co.’ over the
door, and said to herself, with a sternly reproachful air...

“It serves me right! what business had I to put on all my best things
and come philandering down here, hoping to see the Professor? Jo, I’m
ashamed of you! No, you shall not go there to borrow an umbrella, or
find out where he is, from his friends. You shall trudge away, and do
your errands in the rain, and if you catch your death and ruin your
bonnet, it’s no more than you deserve. Now then!”

With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she narrowly
escaped annihilation from a passing truck, and precipitated herself
into the arms of a stately old gentleman, who said, “I beg pardon,
ma’am,” and looked mortally offended. Somewhat daunted, Jo righted
herself, spread her handkerchief over the devoted ribbons, and putting
temptation behind her, hurried on, with increasing dampness about the
ankles, and much clashing of umbrellas overhead. The fact that a
somewhat dilapidated blue one remained stationary above the unprotected
bonnet attracted her attention, and looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer
looking down.

“I feel to know the strong-minded lady who goes so bravely under many
horse noses, and so fast through much mud. What do you down here, my
friend?”

“I’m shopping.”

Mr. Bhaer smiled, as he glanced from the pickle factory on one side to
the wholesale hide and leather concern on the other, but he only said
politely, “You haf no umbrella. May I go also, and take for you the
bundles?”

“Yes, thank you.”