Jo’s cheeks were as red as her ribbon, and she wondered what he thought
of her, but she didn’t care, for in a minute she found herself walking
away arm in arm with her Professor, feeling as if the sun had suddenly
burst out with uncommon brilliancy, that the world was all right again,
and that one thoroughly happy woman was paddling through the wet that
day.

“We thought you had gone,” said Jo hastily, for she knew he was looking
at her. Her bonnet wasn’t big enough to hide her face, and she feared
he might think the joy it betrayed unmaidenly.

“Did you believe that I should go with no farewell to those who haf
been so heavenly kind to me?” he asked so reproachfully that she felt
as if she had insulted him by the suggestion, and answered heartily...

“No, I didn’t. I knew you were busy about your own affairs, but we
rather missed you, Father and Mother especially.”

“And you?”

“I’m always glad to see you, sir.”

In her anxiety to keep her voice quite calm, Jo made it rather cool,
and the frosty little monosyllable at the end seemed to chill the
Professor, for his smile vanished, as he said gravely...

“I thank you, and come one more time before I go.”

“You are going, then?”

“I haf no longer any business here, it is done.”

“Successfully, I hope?” said Jo, for the bitterness of disappointment
was in that short reply of his.

“I ought to think so, for I haf a way opened to me by which I can make
my bread and gif my Junglings much help.”

“Tell me, please! I like to know all about the—the boys,” said Jo
eagerly.

“That is so kind, I gladly tell you. My friends find for me a place in
a college, where I teach as at home, and earn enough to make the way
smooth for Franz and Emil. For this I should be grateful, should I
not?”

“Indeed you should. How splendid it will be to have you doing what you
like, and be able to see you often, and the boys!” cried Jo, clinging
to the lads as an excuse for the satisfaction she could not help
betraying.

“Ah! But we shall not meet often, I fear, this place is at the West.”

“So far away!” and Jo left her skirts to their fate, as if it didn’t
matter now what became of her clothes or herself.