Jo frowned upon that piece of extravagance, and asked why he didn’t buy
a frail of dates, a cask of raisins, and a bag of almonds, and be done
with it? Whereat Mr. Bhaer confiscated her purse, produced his own, and
finished the marketing by buying several pounds of grapes, a pot of
rosy daisies, and a pretty jar of honey, to be regarded in the light of
a demijohn. Then distorting his pockets with knobby bundles, and giving
her the flowers to hold, he put up the old umbrella, and they traveled
on again.

“Miss Marsch, I haf a great favor to ask of you,” began the Professor,
after a moist promenade of half a block.

“Yes, sir?” and Jo’s heart began to beat so hard she was afraid he
would hear it.

“I am bold to say it in spite of the rain, because so short a time
remains to me.”

“Yes, sir,” and Jo nearly crushed the small flowerpot with the sudden
squeeze she gave it.

“I wish to get a little dress for my Tina, and I am too stupid to go
alone. Will you kindly gif me a word of taste and help?”

“Yes, sir,” and Jo felt as calm and cool all of a sudden as if she had
stepped into a refrigerator.

“Perhaps also a shawl for Tina’s mother, she is so poor and sick, and
the husband is such a care. Yes, yes, a thick, warm shawl would be a
friendly thing to take the little mother.”

“I’ll do it with pleasure, Mr. Bhaer.” “I’m going very fast, and he’s
getting dearer every minute,” added Jo to herself, then with a mental
shake she entered into the business with an energy that was pleasant to
behold.

Mr. Bhaer left it all to her, so she chose a pretty gown for Tina, and
then ordered out the shawls. The clerk, being a married man,
condescended to take an interest in the couple, who appeared to be
shopping for their family.

“Your lady may prefer this. It’s a superior article, a most desirable
color, quite chaste and genteel,” he said, shaking out a comfortable
gray shawl, and throwing it over Jo’s shoulders.

“Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?” she asked, turning her back to him,
and feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her face.

“Excellently well, we will haf it,” answered the Professor, smiling to
himself as he paid for it, while Jo continued to rummage the counters
like a confirmed bargain-hunter.

“Now shall we go home?” he asked, as if the words were very pleasant to
him.