“We shall see. Haf you patience to wait a long time, Jo? I must go away
and do my work alone. I must help my boys first, because, even for you,
I may not break my word to Minna. Can you forgif that, and be happy
while we hope and wait?”

“Yes, I know I can, for we love one another, and that makes all the
rest easy to bear. I have my duty, also, and my work. I couldn’t enjoy
myself if I neglected them even for you, so there’s no need of hurry or
impatience. You can do your part out West, I can do mine here, and both
be happy hoping for the best, and leaving the future to be as God
wills.”

“Ah! Thou gifest me such hope and courage, and I haf nothing to gif
back but a full heart and these empty hands,” cried the Professor,
quite overcome.

Jo never, never would learn to be proper, for when he said that as they
stood upon the steps, she just put both hands into his, whispering
tenderly, “Not empty now,” and stooping down, kissed her Friedrich
under the umbrella. It was dreadful, but she would have done it if the
flock of draggle-tailed sparrows on the hedge had been human beings,
for she was very far gone indeed, and quite regardless of everything
but her own happiness. Though it came in such a very simple guise, that
was the crowning moment of both their lives, when, turning from the
night and storm and loneliness to the household light and warmth and
peace waiting to receive them, with a glad “Welcome home!” Jo led her
lover in, and shut the door.

CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN
HARVEST TIME

For a year Jo and her Professor worked and waited, hoped and loved, met
occasionally, and wrote such voluminous letters that the rise in the
price of paper was accounted for, Laurie said. The second year began
rather soberly, for their prospects did not brighten, and Aunt March
died suddenly. But when their first sorrow was over—for they loved the
old lady in spite of her sharp tongue—they found they had cause for
rejoicing, for she had left Plumfield to Jo, which made all sorts of
joyful things possible.

“It’s a fine old place, and will bring a handsome sum, for of course
you intend to sell it,” said Laurie, as they were all talking the
matter over some weeks later.

“No, I don’t,” was Jo’s decided answer, as she petted the fat poodle,
whom she had adopted, out of respect to his former mistress.

“You don’t mean to live there?”

“Yes, I do.”

“But, my dear girl, it’s an immense house, and will take a power of
money to keep it in order. The garden and orchard alone need two or
three men, and farming isn’t in Bhaer’s line, I take it.”

“He’ll try his hand at it there, if I propose it.”