There were a great many holidays at Plumfield, and one of the most
delightful was the yearly apple-picking. For then the Marches,
Laurences, Brookes and Bhaers turned out in full force and made a day
of it. Five years after Jo’s wedding, one of these fruitful festivals
occurred, a mellow October day, when the air was full of an
exhilarating freshness which made the spirits rise and the blood dance
healthily in the veins. The old orchard wore its holiday attire.
Goldenrod and asters fringed the mossy walls. Grasshoppers skipped
briskly in the sere grass, and crickets chirped like fairy pipers at a
feast. Squirrels were busy with their small harvesting. Birds twittered
their adieux from the alders in the lane, and every tree stood ready to
send down its shower of red or yellow apples at the first shake.
Everybody was there. Everybody laughed and sang, climbed up and tumbled
down. Everybody declared that there never had been such a perfect day
or such a jolly set to enjoy it, and everyone gave themselves up to the
simple pleasures of the hour as freely as if there were no such things
as care or sorrow in the world.

Mr. March strolled placidly about, quoting Tusser, Cowley, and
Columella to Mr. Laurence, while enjoying...

The gentle apple’s winey juice.

The Professor charged up and down the green aisles like a stout
Teutonic knight, with a pole for a lance, leading on the boys, who made
a hook and ladder company of themselves, and performed wonders in the
way of ground and lofty tumbling. Laurie devoted himself to the little
ones, rode his small daughter in a bushel-basket, took Daisy up among
the bird’s nests, and kept adventurous Rob from breaking his neck. Mrs.
March and Meg sat among the apple piles like a pair of Pomonas, sorting
the contributions that kept pouring in, while Amy with a beautiful
motherly expression in her face sketched the various groups, and
watched over one pale lad, who sat adoring her with his little crutch
beside him.

Jo was in her element that day, and rushed about, with her gown pinned
up, and her hat anywhere but on her head, and her baby tucked under her
arm, ready for any lively adventure which might turn up. Little Teddy
bore a charmed life, for nothing ever happened to him, and Jo never
felt any anxiety when he was whisked up into a tree by one lad,
galloped off on the back of another, or supplied with sour russets by
his indulgent papa, who labored under the Germanic delusion that babies
could digest anything, from pickled cabbage to buttons, nails, and
their own small shoes. She knew that little Ted would turn up again in
time, safe and rosy, dirty and serene, and she always received him back
with a hearty welcome, for Jo loved her babies tenderly.