At four o’clock a lull took place, and baskets remained empty, while
the apple pickers rested and compared rents and bruises. Then Jo and
Meg, with a detachment of the bigger boys, set forth the supper on the
grass, for an out-of-door tea was always the crowning joy of the day.
The land literally flowed with milk and honey on such occasions, for
the lads were not required to sit at table, but allowed to partake of
refreshment as they liked—freedom being the sauce best beloved by the
boyish soul. They availed themselves of the rare privilege to the
fullest extent, for some tried the pleasing experiment of drinking milk
while standing on their heads, others lent a charm to leapfrog by
eating pie in the pauses of the game, cookies were sown broadcast over
the field, and apple turnovers roosted in the trees like a new style of
bird. The little girls had a private tea party, and Ted roved among the
edibles at his own sweet will.

When no one could eat any more, the Professor proposed the first
regular toast, which was always drunk at such times—“Aunt March, God
bless her!” A toast heartily given by the good man, who never forgot
how much he owed her, and quietly drunk by the boys, who had been
taught to keep her memory green.

“Now, Grandma’s sixtieth birthday! Long life to her, with three times
three!”

That was given with a will, as you may well believe, and the cheering
once begun, it was hard to stop it. Everybody’s health was proposed,
from Mr. Laurence, who was considered their special patron, to the
astonished guinea pig, who had strayed from its proper sphere in search
of its young master. Demi, as the oldest grandchild, then presented the
queen of the day with various gifts, so numerous that they were
transported to the festive scene in a wheelbarrow. Funny presents, some
of them, but what would have been defects to other eyes were ornaments
to Grandma’s—for the children’s gifts were all their own. Every stitch
Daisy’s patient little fingers had put into the handkerchiefs she
hemmed was better than embroidery to Mrs. March. Demi’s miracle of
mechanical skill, though the cover wouldn’t shut, Rob’s footstool had a
wiggle in its uneven legs that she declared was soothing, and no page
of the costly book Amy’s child gave her was so fair as that on which
appeared in tipsy capitals, the words—“To dear Grandma, from her little
Beth.”