During the ceremony the boys had mysteriously disappeared, and when
Mrs. March had tried to thank her children, and broken down, while
Teddy wiped her eyes on his pinafore, the Professor suddenly began to
sing. Then, from above him, voice after voice took up the words, and
from tree to tree echoed the music of the unseen choir, as the boys
sang with all their hearts the little song that Jo had written, Laurie
set to music, and the Professor trained his lads to give with the best
effect. This was something altogether new, and it proved a grand
success, for Mrs. March couldn’t get over her surprise, and insisted on
shaking hands with every one of the featherless birds, from tall Franz
and Emil to the little quadroon, who had the sweetest voice of all.

After this, the boys dispersed for a final lark, leaving Mrs. March and
her daughters under the festival tree.

“I don’t think I ever ought to call myself ‘unlucky Jo’ again, when my
greatest wish has been so beautifully gratified,” said Mrs. Bhaer,
taking Teddy’s little fist out of the milk pitcher, in which he was
rapturously churning.

“And yet your life is very different from the one you pictured so long
ago. Do you remember our castles in the air?” asked Amy, smiling as she
watched Laurie and John playing cricket with the boys.

“Dear fellows! It does my heart good to see them forget business and
frolic for a day,” answered Jo, who now spoke in a maternal way of all
mankind. “Yes, I remember, but the life I wanted then seems selfish,
lonely, and cold to me now. I haven’t given up the hope that I may
write a good book yet, but I can wait, and I’m sure it will be all the
better for such experiences and illustrations as these,” and Jo pointed
from the lively lads in the distance to her father, leaning on the
Professor’s arm, as they walked to and fro in the sunshine, deep in one
of the conversations which both enjoyed so much, and then to her
mother, sitting enthroned among her daughters, with their children in
her lap and at her feet, as if all found help and happiness in the face
which never could grow old to them.

“My castle was the most nearly realized of all. I asked for splendid
things, to be sure, but in my heart I knew I should be satisfied, if I
had a little home, and John, and some dear children like these. I’ve
got them all, thank God, and am the happiest woman in the world,” and
Meg laid her hand on her tall boy’s head, with a face full of tender
and devout content.