“My castle is very different from what I planned, but I would not alter
it, though, like Jo, I don’t relinquish all my artistic hopes, or
confine myself to helping others fulfill their dreams of beauty. I’ve
begun to model a figure of baby, and Laurie says it is the best thing
I’ve ever done. I think so, myself, and mean to do it in marble, so
that, whatever happens, I may at least keep the image of my little
angel.”

As Amy spoke, a great tear dropped on the golden hair of the sleeping
child in her arms, for her one well-beloved daughter was a frail little
creature and the dread of losing her was the shadow over Amy’s
sunshine. This cross was doing much for both father and mother, for one
love and sorrow bound them closely together. Amy’s nature was growing
sweeter, deeper, and more tender. Laurie was growing more serious,
strong, and firm, and both were learning that beauty, youth, good
fortune, even love itself, cannot keep care and pain, loss and sorrow,
from the most blessed for ...

Into each life some rain must fall,
Some days must be dark and sad and dreary.

“She is growing better, I am sure of it, my dear. Don’t despond, but
hope and keep happy,” said Mrs. March, as tenderhearted Daisy stooped
from her knee to lay her rosy cheek against her little cousin’s pale
one.

“I never ought to, while I have you to cheer me up, Marmee, and Laurie
to take more than half of every burden,” replied Amy warmly. “He never
lets me see his anxiety, but is so sweet and patient with me, so
devoted to Beth, and such a stay and comfort to me always that I can’t
love him enough. So, in spite of my one cross, I can say with Meg,
‘Thank God, I’m a happy woman.’”

“There’s no need for me to say it, for everyone can see that I’m far
happier than I deserve,” added Jo, glancing from her good husband to
her chubby children, tumbling on the grass beside her. “Fritz is
getting gray and stout. I’m growing as thin as a shadow, and am thirty.
We never shall be rich, and Plumfield may burn up any night, for that
incorrigible Tommy Bangs will smoke sweet-fern cigars under the
bed-clothes, though he’s set himself afire three times already. But in
spite of these unromantic facts, I have nothing to complain of, and
never was so jolly in my life. Excuse the remark, but living among
boys, I can’t help using their expressions now and then.”

“Yes, Jo, I think your harvest will be a good one,” began Mrs. March,
frightening away a big black cricket that was staring Teddy out of
countenance.

“Not half so good as yours, Mother. Here it is, and we never can thank
you enough for the patient sowing and reaping you have done,” cried Jo,
with the loving impetuosity which she never would outgrow.