"Of course not," Alice replied very readily: "but that's because it
stays the same year for such a long time together."

"Which is just the case with _mine_," said the Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no
meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. "I don't quite
understand," she said, as politely as she could.

"The Dormouse is asleep again," said the Hatter, and he poured a little
hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes, "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself."

"Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to Alice
again.

"No, I give it up," Alice replied: "what's the answer?"

"I haven't the slightest idea," said the Hatter.

"Nor I," said the March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily. "I think you might do something better with the
time," she said, "than wasting it asking riddles with no answers."

"If you knew Time as well as I do," said the Hatter, "you wouldn't talk
about wasting _it_. It's _him_."

"I don't know what you mean," said Alice.

"Of course you don't!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
"I daresay you never spoke to Time!"

"Perhaps not," Alice cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time
when I learn music."

"Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter. "He won't stand beating.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything
you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in
the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a
hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
time for dinner!"

("I only wish it was," the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)

"That would be grand, certainly," said Alice thoughtfully: "but then--I
shouldn't be hungry for it, you know."

"Not at first, perhaps," said the Hatter: "but you could keep it to
half-past one as long as you liked."

"Is that the way _you_ manage?" Alice asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. "Not I!" he replied. "We
quarrelled last March----just before _he_ went mad, you know----"
(pointing with his teaspoon to the March Hare), "it was at the great
concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

'Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
          How I wonder what you're at!'

You know that song, perhaps?"

"I've heard something like it," said Alice.

"It goes on, you know," the Hatter continued, "in this way:--

'Up above the world you fly,
          Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                      Twinkle, twinkle----'"

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
"_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_----" and went on so long that they
had to pinch it to make it stop.

"Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse," said the Hatter, "when the
Queen jumped up and bawled out 'He's murdering the time! Off with his
head!'"

"How dreadfully savage!" exclaimed Alice.