"And ever since that," the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, "he won't
do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now."

A bright idea came into Alice's head. "Is that the reason so many
tea-things are put out here?" she asked.

"Yes, that's it," said the Hatter with a sigh: "it's always tea-time,
and we've no time to wash the things between whiles."

"Then you keep moving round, I suppose?" said Alice.

"Exactly so," said the Hatter: "as the things get used up."

"But what happens when you come to the beginning again?" Alice ventured
to ask.

"Suppose we change the subject," the March Hare interrupted, yawning.
"I'm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story."

"I'm afraid I don't know one," said Alice, rather alarmed at the
proposal.

"Then the Dormouse shall!" they both cried. "Wake up, Dormouse!" And
they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. "I wasn't asleep," he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice: "I heard every word you fellows were saying."

"Tell us a story!" said the March Hare.

"Yes, please do!" pleaded Alice.

"And be quick about it," added the Hatter, "or you'll be asleep again
before it's done."

"Once upon a time there were three little sisters," the Dormouse began
in a great hurry; "and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and
they lived at the bottom of a well----"

"What did they live on?" said Alice, who always took a great interest in
questions of eating and drinking.

"They lived on treacle," said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or
two.

"They couldn't have done that, you know," Alice gently remarked; "they'd
have been ill."

"So they were," said the Dormouse; "_very_ ill."

Alice tried a little to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on:
"But why did they live at the bottom of a well?"

"Take some more tea," the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.

"I've had nothing yet," Alice replied in an offended tone, "so I can't
take more."

"You mean you can't take _less_," said the Hatter; "it's very easy to
take _more_ than nothing."

"Nobody asked _your_ opinion," said Alice.

"Who's making personal remarks now?" the Hatter asked triumphantly.

Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to
some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and
repeated her question. "Why did they live at the bottom of a well?"

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then
said, "It was a treacle-well."

"There's no such thing!" Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
Hatter and the March Hare went "Sh! sh!" and the Dormouse sulkily
remarked: "If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for
yourself."

"No, please go on!" Alice said very humbly. "I won't interrupt you
again. I dare say there may be _one_."