“I certainly am not stupid!” thought the messenger. “It must be, that I
am not fit for my good, profitable office! That is very odd; however, no
one shall know anything about it.” And accordingly he praised the stuff
he could not see, and declared that he was delighted with both colors
and patterns. “Indeed, please your Imperial Majesty,” said he to his
sovereign when he returned, “the cloth which the weavers are preparing
is extraordinarily magnificent.”

The whole city was talking of the splendid cloth which the Emperor had
ordered to be woven at his own expense.

And now the Emperor himself wished to see the costly manufacture, while
it was still in the loom. Accompanied by a select number of officers of
the court, among whom were the two honest men who had already admired
the cloth, he went to the crafty impostors, who, as soon as they were
aware of the Emperor's approach, went on working more diligently than
ever; although they still did not pass a single thread through the
looms.

“Is not the work absolutely magnificent?” said the two officers of the
crown, already mentioned. “If your Majesty will only be pleased to look
at it! What a splendid design! What glorious colors!” and at the same
time they pointed to the empty frames; for they imagined that everyone
else could see this exquisite piece of workmanship.

“How is this?” said the Emperor to himself. “I can see nothing! This
is indeed a terrible affair! Am I a simpleton, or am I unfit to be an
Emperor? That would be the worst thing that could happen--Oh! the cloth
is charming,” said he, aloud. “It has my complete approbation.” And he
smiled most graciously, and looked closely at the empty looms; for on no
account would he say that he could not see what two of the officers of
his court had praised so much. All his retinue now strained their eyes,
hoping to discover something on the looms, but they could see no more
than the others; nevertheless, they all exclaimed, “Oh, how beautiful!”
 and advised his majesty to have some new clothes made from this splendid
material, for the approaching procession. “Magnificent! Charming!
Excellent!” resounded on all sides; and everyone was uncommonly gay. The
Emperor shared in the general satisfaction; and presented the impostors
with the riband of an order of knighthood, to be worn in their
button-holes, and the title of “Gentlemen Weavers.”

The rogues sat up the whole of the night before the day on which the
procession was to take place, and had sixteen lights burning, so that
everyone might see how anxious they were to finish the Emperor's new
suit. They pretended to roll the cloth off the looms; cut the air with
their scissors; and sewed with needles without any thread in them.
“See!” cried they, at last. “The Emperor's new clothes are ready!”