The woman examined him with eyes of astonishment, and shook her head;
she then addressed him in German. The Councillor thought she did not
understand Danish, and therefore repeated his wish in German. This, in
connection with his costume, strengthened the good woman in the belief
that he was a foreigner. That he was ill, she comprehended directly; so
she brought him a pitcher of water, which tasted certainly pretty strong
of the sea, although it had been fetched from the well.

The Councillor supported his head on his hand, drew a long breath, and
thought over all the wondrous things he saw around him.

“Is this the Daily News of this evening?” he asked mechanically, as he
saw the Hostess push aside a large sheet of paper.

The meaning of this councillorship query remained, of course, a riddle
to her, yet she handed him the paper without replying. It was a coarse
wood-cut, representing a splendid meteor “as seen in the town of
Cologne,” which was to be read below in bright letters.

“That is very old!” said the Councillor, whom this piece of antiquity
began to make considerably more cheerful. “Pray how did you come into
possession of this rare print? It is extremely interesting, although the
whole is a mere fable. Such meteorous appearances are to be explained in
this way--that they are the reflections of the Aurora Borealis, and it
is highly probable they are caused principally by electricity.”

Those persons who were sitting nearest him and heard his speech,
stared at him in wonderment; and one of them rose, took off his hat
respectfully, and said with a serious countenance, “You are no doubt a
very learned man, Monsieur.”

“Oh no,” answered the Councillor, “I can only join in conversation on
this topic and on that, as indeed one must do according to the demands
of the world at present.”

“Modestia is a fine virtue,” continued the gentleman; “however, as to
your speech, I must say mihi secus videtur: yet I am willing to suspend
my judicium.”

“May I ask with whom I have the pleasure of speaking?” asked the
Councillor.

“I am a Bachelor in Theologia,” answered the gentleman with a stiff
reverence.

This reply fully satisfied the Councillor; the title suited the dress.
“He is certainly,” thought he, “some village schoolmaster--some queer
old fellow, such as one still often meets with in Jutland.”

“This is no locus docendi, it is true,” began the clerical gentleman;
“yet I beg you earnestly to let us profit by your learning. Your reading
in the ancients is, sine dubio, of vast extent?”

“Oh yes, I've read something, to be sure,” replied the Councillor. “I
like reading all useful works; but I do not on that account despise the
modern ones; 'tis only the unfortunate 'Tales of Every-day Life' that I
cannot bear--we have enough and more than enough such in reality.”

“'Tales of Every-day Life?'” said our Bachelor inquiringly.