“Such a pair of shoes must be very warm and comfortable,” said he; “the
leather is so soft and supple.” They fitted his feet as though they
had been made for him. “'Tis a curious world we live in,” continued he,
soliloquizing. “There is the lieutenant, now, who might go quietly to
bed if he chose, where no doubt he could stretch himself at his ease;
but does he do it? No; he saunters up and down his room, because,
probably, he has enjoyed too many of the good things of this world at
his dinner. That's a happy fellow! He has neither an infirm mother, nor
a whole troop of everlastingly hungry children to torment him. Every
evening he goes to a party, where his nice supper costs him nothing:
would to Heaven I could but change with him! How happy should I be!”

While expressing his wish, the charm of the shoes, which he had put on,
began to work; the watchman entered into the being and nature of the
lieutenant. He stood in the handsomely furnished apartment, and held
between his fingers a small sheet of rose-colored paper, on which some
verses were written--written indeed by the officer himself; for who has
not, at least once in his life, had a lyrical moment? And if one then
marks down one's thoughts, poetry is produced. But here was written:

OH, WERE I RICH!

“Oh, were I rich! Such was my wish, yea such
      When hardly three feet high, I longed for much.
       Oh, were I rich! an officer were I,
       With sword, and uniform, and plume so high.
       And the time came, and officer was I!
     But yet I grew not rich. Alas, poor me!
     Have pity, Thou, who all man's wants dost see.

“I sat one evening sunk in dreams of bliss,
      A maid of seven years old gave me a kiss,
       I at that time was rich in poesy
       And tales of old, though poor as poor could be;
       But all she asked for was this poesy.
     Then was I rich, but not in gold, poor me!
     As Thou dost know, who all men's hearts canst see.

“Oh, were I rich! Oft asked I for this boon.
      The child grew up to womanhood full soon.
       She is so pretty, clever, and so kind
     Oh, did she know what's hidden in my mind--
       A tale of old. Would she to me were kind!
     But I'm condemned to silence! oh, poor me!
     As Thou dost know, who all men's hearts canst see.

“Oh, were I rich in calm and peace of mind,
      My grief you then would not here written find!
       O thou, to whom I do my heart devote,
       Oh read this page of glad days now remote,
       A dark, dark tale, which I tonight devote!
     Dark is the future now. Alas, poor me!
     Have pity Thou, who all men's pains dost see.”