The Tree only came to himself when he was unloaded in a court-yard with
the other trees, and heard a man say, “That one is splendid! We don't
want the others.” Then two servants came in rich livery and carried the
Fir Tree into a large and splendid drawing-room. Portraits were hanging
on the walls, and near the white porcelain stove stood two large Chinese
vases with lions on the covers. There, too, were large easy-chairs,
silken sofas, large tables full of picture-books and full of toys, worth
hundreds and hundreds of crowns--at least the children said so. And the
Fir Tree was stuck upright in a cask that was filled with sand; but no
one could see that it was a cask, for green cloth was hung all round it,
and it stood on a large gaily-colored carpet. Oh! how the Tree quivered!
What was to happen? The servants, as well as the young ladies, decorated
it. On one branch there hung little nets cut out of colored paper, and
each net was filled with sugarplums; and among the other boughs gilded
apples and walnuts were suspended, looking as though they had grown
there, and little blue and white tapers were placed among the leaves.
Dolls that looked for all the world like men--the Tree had never beheld
such before--were seen among the foliage, and at the very top a
large star of gold tinsel was fixed. It was really splendid--beyond
description splendid.

“This evening!” they all said. “How it will shine this evening!”

“Oh!” thought the Tree. “If the evening were but come! If the tapers
were but lighted! And then I wonder what will happen! Perhaps the other
trees from the forest will come to look at me! Perhaps the sparrows will
beat against the windowpanes! I wonder if I shall take root here, and
winter and summer stand covered with ornaments!”

He knew very much about the matter--but he was so impatient that for
sheer longing he got a pain in his back, and this with trees is the same
thing as a headache with us.

The candles were now lighted--what brightness! What splendor! The
Tree trembled so in every bough that one of the tapers set fire to the
foliage. It blazed up famously.

“Help! Help!” cried the young ladies, and they quickly put out the fire.

Now the Tree did not even dare tremble. What a state he was in! He was
so uneasy lest he should lose something of his splendor, that he was
quite bewildered amidst the glare and brightness; when suddenly both
folding-doors opened and a troop of children rushed in as if they would
upset the Tree. The older persons followed quietly; the little ones
stood quite still. But it was only for a moment; then they shouted that
the whole place re-echoed with their rejoicing; they danced round the
Tree, and one present after the other was pulled off.