Oh, how tender and wearied her little feet were! All around it looked
so cold and raw: the long willow-leaves were quite yellow, and the fog
dripped from them like water; one leaf fell after the other: the sloes
only stood full of fruit, which set one's teeth on edge. Oh, how dark
and comfortless it was in the dreary world!

FOURTH STORY. The Prince and Princess

Gerda was obliged to rest herself again, when, exactly opposite to her,
a large Raven came hopping over the white snow. He had long been looking
at Gerda and shaking his head; and now he said, “Caw! Caw!” Good day!
Good day! He could not say it better; but he felt a sympathy for the
little girl, and asked her where she was going all alone. The word
seen Kay.

The Raven nodded very gravely, and said, “It may be--it may be!”

“What, do you really think so?” cried the little girl; and she nearly
squeezed the Raven to death, so much did she kiss him.

“Gently, gently,” said the Raven. “I think I know; I think that it may
be little Kay. But now he has forgotten you for the Princess.”

“Does he live with a Princess?” asked Gerda.

“Yes--listen,” said the Raven; “but it will be difficult for me to
speak your language. If you understand the Raven language I can tell you
better.”

“No, I have not learnt it,” said Gerda; “but my grandmother understands
it, and she can speak gibberish too. I wish I had learnt it.”

“No matter,” said the Raven; “I will tell you as well as I can; however,
it will be bad enough.” And then he told all he knew.

“In the kingdom where we now are there lives a Princess, who is
extraordinarily clever; for she has read all the newspapers in the whole
world, and has forgotten them again--so clever is she. She was lately,
it is said, sitting on her throne--which is not very amusing after
all--when she began humming an old tune, and it was just, 'Oh, why
should I not be married?' 'That song is not without its meaning,' said
she, and so then she was determined to marry; but she would have a
husband who knew how to give an answer when he was spoken to--not
one who looked only as if he were a great personage, for that is so
tiresome. She then had all the ladies of the court drummed together; and
when they heard her intention, all were very pleased, and said, 'We are
very glad to hear it; it is the very thing we were thinking of.' You may
believe every word I say,” said the Raven; “for I have a tame sweetheart
that hops about in the palace quite free, and it was she who told me all
this.