And they went into the garden in the large avenue, where one leaf was
falling after the other; and when the lights in the palace had all
gradually disappeared, the Raven led little Gerda to the back door,
which stood half open.

Oh, how Gerda's heart beat with anxiety and longing! It was just as if
she had been about to do something wrong; and yet she only wanted to
know if little Kay was there. Yes, he must be there. She called to mind
his intelligent eyes, and his long hair, so vividly, she could quite see
him as he used to laugh when they were sitting under the roses at home.
“He will, no doubt, be glad to see you--to hear what a long way you have
come for his sake; to know how unhappy all at home were when he did not
come back.”

Oh, what a fright and a joy it was!

They were now on the stairs. A single lamp was burning there; and on the
floor stood the tame Raven, turning her head on every side and looking
at Gerda, who bowed as her grandmother had taught her to do.

“My intended has told me so much good of you, my dear young lady,” said
the tame Raven. “Your tale is very affecting. If you will take the lamp,
I will go before. We will go straight on, for we shall meet no one.”

“I think there is somebody just behind us,” said Gerda; and something
rushed past: it was like shadowy figures on the wall; horses with
flowing manes and thin legs, huntsmen, ladies and gentlemen on
horseback.

“They are only dreams,” said the Raven. “They come to fetch the thoughts
of the high personages to the chase; 'tis well, for now you can observe
them in bed all the better. But let me find, when you enjoy honor and
distinction, that you possess a grateful heart.”

“Tut! That's not worth talking about,” said the Raven of the woods.

They now entered the first saloon, which was of rose-colored satin, with
artificial flowers on the wall. Here the dreams were rushing past,
but they hastened by so quickly that Gerda could not see the high
personages. One hall was more magnificent than the other; one might
indeed well be abashed; and at last they came into the bedchamber. The
ceiling of the room resembled a large palm-tree with leaves of glass,
of costly glass; and in the middle, from a thick golden stem, hung two
beds, each of which resembled a lily. One was white, and in this lay the
Princess; the other was red, and it was here that Gerda was to look for
little Kay. She bent back one of the red leaves, and saw a brown neck.
Oh! that was Kay! She called him quite loud by name, held the lamp
towards him--the dreams rushed back again into the chamber--he awoke,
turned his head, and--it was not little Kay!