“Farewell! Farewell!” cried Prince and Princess; and Gerda wept, and
the Raven wept. Thus passed the first miles; and then the Raven bade her
farewell, and this was the most painful separation of all. He flew into
a tree, and beat his black wings as long as he could see the carriage,
that shone from afar like a sunbeam.

FIFTH STORY. The Little Robber Maiden

They drove through the dark wood; but the carriage shone like a torch,
and it dazzled the eyes of the robbers, so that they could not bear to
look at it.

“'Tis gold! 'Tis gold!” they cried; and they rushed forward, seized
the horses, knocked down the little postilion, the coachman, and the
servants, and pulled little Gerda out of the carriage.

“How plump, how beautiful she is! She must have been fed on
nut-kernels,” said the old female robber, who had a long, scrubby beard,
and bushy eyebrows that hung down over her eyes. “She is as good as a
fatted lamb! How nice she will be!” And then she drew out a knife, the
blade of which shone so that it was quite dreadful to behold.

and unmanageable, that it was quite amusing to see her. “You naughty
child!” said the mother: and now she had not time to kill Gerda.

“She shall play with me,” said the little robber child. “She shall give
me her muff, and her pretty frock; she shall sleep in my bed!” And then
she gave her mother another bite, so that she jumped, and ran round with
the pain; and the Robbers laughed, and said, “Look, how she is dancing
with the little one!”

“I will go into the carriage,” said the little robber maiden; and she
would have her will, for she was very spoiled and very headstrong. She
and Gerda got in; and then away they drove over the stumps of felled
trees, deeper and deeper into the woods. The little robber maiden was as
tall as Gerda, but stronger, broader-shouldered, and of dark complexion;
her eyes were quite black; they looked almost melancholy. She embraced
little Gerda, and said, “They shall not kill you as long as I am not
displeased with you. You are, doubtless, a Princess?”

“No,” said little Gerda; who then related all that had happened to her,
and how much she cared about little Kay.

The little robber maiden looked at her with a serious air, nodded her
head slightly, and said, “They shall not kill you, even if I am angry
with you: then I will do it myself”; and she dried Gerda's eyes, and put
both her hands in the handsome muff, which was so soft and warm.

At length the carriage stopped. They were in the midst of the court-yard
of a robber's castle. It was full of cracks from top to bottom; and out
of the openings magpies and rooks were flying; and the great bull-dogs,
each of which looked as if he could swallow a man, jumped up, but they
did not bark, for that was forbidden.