In the midst of the large, old, smoking hall burnt a great fire on the
stone floor. The smoke disappeared under the stones, and had to seek
its own egress. In an immense caldron soup was boiling; and rabbits and
hares were being roasted on a spit.

“You shall sleep with me to-night, with all my animals,” said the little
robber maiden. They had something to eat and drink; and then went into
a corner, where straw and carpets were lying. Beside them, on laths and
perches, sat nearly a hundred pigeons, all asleep, seemingly; but yet
they moved a little when the robber maiden came. “They are all mine,”
 said she, at the same time seizing one that was next to her by the legs
and shaking it so that its wings fluttered. “Kiss it,” cried the little
girl, and flung the pigeon in Gerda's face. “Up there is the rabble of
the wood,” continued she, pointing to several laths which were fastened
before a hole high up in the wall; “that's the rabble; they would all
fly away immediately, if they were not well fastened in. And here is my
dear old Bac”; and she laid hold of the horns of a reindeer, that had a
bright copper ring round its neck, and was tethered to the spot. “We are
obliged to lock this fellow in too, or he would make his escape. Every
evening I tickle his neck with my sharp knife; he is so frightened at
it!” and the little girl drew forth a long knife, from a crack in the
wall, and let it glide over the Reindeer's neck. The poor animal kicked;
the girl laughed, and pulled Gerda into bed with her.

“Do you intend to keep your knife while you sleep?” asked Gerda; looking
at it rather fearfully.

“I always sleep with the knife,” said the little robber maiden. “There
is no knowing what may happen. But tell me now, once more, all about
little Kay; and why you have started off in the wide world alone.” And
Gerda related all, from the very beginning: the Wood-pigeons cooed above
in their cage, and the others slept. The little robber maiden wound her
arm round Gerda's neck, held the knife in the other hand, and snored so
loud that everybody could hear her; but Gerda could not close her eyes,
for she did not know whether she was to live or die. The robbers sat
round the fire, sang and drank; and the old female robber jumped about
so, that it was quite dreadful for Gerda to see her.

Then the Wood-pigeons said, “Coo! Coo! We have seen little Kay! A white
hen carries his sledge; he himself sat in the carriage of the Snow
Queen, who passed here, down just over the wood, as we lay in our nest.
She blew upon us young ones; and all died except we two. Coo! Coo!”