“I can't bear to see you fretting,” said the little robber maiden. “This
is just the time when you ought to look pleased. Here are two loaves and
a ham for you, so that you won't starve.” The bread and the meat were
fastened to the Reindeer's back; the little maiden opened the door,
called in all the dogs, and then with her knife cut the rope that
fastened the animal, and said to him, “Now, off with you; but take good
care of the little girl!”

And Gerda stretched out her hands with the large wadded gloves towards
the robber maiden, and said, “Farewell!” and the Reindeer flew on over
bush and bramble through the great wood, over moor and heath, as fast as
he could go.

“Ddsa! Ddsa!” was heard in the sky. It was just as if somebody was
sneezing.

“These are my old northern-lights,” said the Reindeer, “look how they
gleam!” And on he now sped still quicker--day and night on he went: the
loaves were consumed, and the ham too; and now they were in Lapland.

SIXTH STORY. The Lapland Woman and the Finland Woman

Suddenly they stopped before a little house, which looked very
miserable. The roof reached to the ground; and the door was so low, that
the family were obliged to creep upon their stomachs when they went in
or out. Nobody was at home except an old Lapland woman, who was dressing
fish by the light of an oil lamp. And the Reindeer told her the whole
of Gerda's history, but first of all his own; for that seemed to him of
much greater importance. Gerda was so chilled that she could not speak.

“Poor thing,” said the Lapland woman, “you have far to run still. You
have more than a hundred miles to go before you get to Finland; there
the Snow Queen has her country-house, and burns blue lights every
evening. I will give you a few words from me, which I will write on a
dried haberdine, for paper I have none; this you can take with you to
the Finland woman, and she will be able to give you more information
than I can.”

When Gerda had warmed herself, and had eaten and drunk, the Lapland
woman wrote a few words on a dried haberdine, begged Gerda to take care
of them, put her on the Reindeer, bound her fast, and away sprang the
animal. “Ddsa! Ddsa!” was again heard in the air; the most charming
blue lights burned the whole night in the sky, and at last they came to
Finland. They knocked at the chimney of the Finland woman; for as to a
door, she had none.