“'Yes, many a time have I wept for your sake,' said she. 'I thought you
were dead and gone, and lying down in the deep waters. Many a night have
I got up to see if the wind had not changed: and changed it had, sure
enough; but you never came. I remember so well one day, when the rain
was pouring down in torrents, the scavengers were before the house where
I was in service, and I had come up with the dust, and remained standing
at the door--it was dreadful weather--when just as I was there, the
postman came and gave me a letter. It was from you! What a tour that
letter had made! I opened it instantly and read: I laughed and wept.
I was so happy. In it I read that you were in warm lands where the
coffee-tree grows. What a blessed land that must be! You related so
much, and I saw it all the while the rain was pouring down, and I
standing there with the dust-box. At the same moment came someone who
embraced me.'

“'Yes; but you gave him a good box on his ear that made it tingle!'

“'But I did not know it was you. You arrived as soon as your letter,
and you were so handsome--that you still are--and had a long yellow silk
handkerchief round your neck, and a bran new hat on; oh, you were so
dashing! Good heavens! What weather it was, and what a state the street
was in!'

“'And then we married,' said he. 'Don't you remember? And then we
had our first little boy, and then Mary, and Nicholas, and Peter, and
Christian.'

“'Yes, and how they all grew up to be honest people, and were beloved by
everybody.'

“'And their children also have children,' said the old sailor; 'yes,
those are our grand-children, full of strength and vigor. It was,
methinks about this season that we had our wedding.'

“'Yes, this very day is the fiftieth anniversary of the marriage,' said
old Granny, sticking her head between the two old people; who thought
it was their neighbor who nodded to them. They looked at each other and
held one another by the hand. Soon after came their children, and their
grand-children; for they knew well enough that it was the day of the
fiftieth anniversary, and had come with their gratulations that very
morning; but the old people had forgotten it, although they were able
to remember all that had happened many years ago. And the Elderbush sent
forth a strong odour in the sun, that was just about to set, and shone
right in the old people's faces. They both looked so rosy-cheeked; and
the youngest of the grandchildren danced around them, and called out
quite delighted, that there was to be something very splendid that
evening--they were all to have hot potatoes. And old Nanny nodded in the
bush, and shouted 'hurrah!' with the rest.”