“But that is no fairy tale,” said the little boy, who was listening to
the story.

“The thing is, you must understand it,” said the narrator; “let us ask
old Nanny.”

“That was no fairy tale, 'tis true,” said old Nanny; “but now it's
coming. The most wonderful fairy tales grow out of that which is
reality; were that not the case, you know, my magnificent Elderbush
could not have grown out of the tea-pot.” And then she took the little
boy out of bed, laid him on her bosom, and the branches of the Elder
Tree, full of flowers, closed around her. They sat in an aerial
dwelling, and it flew with them through the air. Oh, it was wondrous
beautiful! Old Nanny had grown all of a sudden a young and pretty
maiden; but her robe was still the same green stuff with white flowers,
which she had worn before. On her bosom she had a real Elderflower,
and in her yellow waving hair a wreath of the flowers; her eyes were so
large and blue that it was a pleasure to look at them; she kissed the
boy, and now they were of the same age and felt alike.

Hand in hand they went out of the bower, and they were standing in the
beautiful garden of their home. Near the green lawn papa's walking-stick
was tied, and for the little ones it seemed to be endowed with life; for
as soon as they got astride it, the round polished knob was turned into
a magnificent neighing head, a long black mane fluttered in the breeze,
and four slender yet strong legs shot out. The animal was strong and
handsome, and away they went at full gallop round the lawn.

“Huzza! Now we are riding miles off,” said the boy. “We are riding away
to the castle where we were last year!”

And on they rode round the grass-plot; and the little maiden, who, we
know, was no one else but old Nanny, kept on crying out, “Now we are in
the country! Don't you see the farm-house yonder? And there is an Elder
Tree standing beside it; and the cock is scraping away the earth for the
hens, look, how he struts! And now we are close to the church. It lies
high upon the hill, between the large oak-trees, one of which is half
decayed. And now we are by the smithy, where the fire is blazing, and
where the half-naked men are banging with their hammers till the sparks
fly about. Away! away! To the beautiful country-seat!”