The whole passage was hung with portraits of knights in armor, and
ladies in silken gowns; and the armor rattled, and the silken gowns
rustled! And then there was a flight of stairs which went a good way
upwards, and a little way downwards, and then one came on a balcony
which was in a very dilapidated state, sure enough, with large holes and
long crevices, but grass grew there and leaves out of them altogether,
for the whole balcony outside, the yard, and the walls, were overgrown
with so much green stuff, that it looked like a garden; only a balcony.
Here stood old flower-pots with faces and asses' ears, and the flowers
grew just as they liked. One of the pots was quite overrun on all sides
with pinks, that is to say, with the green part; shoot stood by shoot,
and it said quite distinctly, “The air has cherished me, the sun has
kissed me, and promised me a little flower on Sunday! a little flower on
Sunday!”

And then they entered a chamber where the walls were covered with hog's
leather, and printed with gold flowers.

“The gilding decays,
   But hog's leather stays!”

said the walls.

And there stood easy-chairs, with such high backs, and so carved out,
and with arms on both sides. “Sit down! sit down!” said they. “Ugh! how
I creak; now I shall certainly get the gout, like the old clothespress,
ugh!”

And then the little boy came into the room where the projecting windows
were, and where the old man sat.

“I thank you for the pewter soldier, my little friend!” said the old
man. “And I thank you because you come over to me.”

“Thankee! thankee!” or “cranky! cranky!” sounded from all the furniture;
there was so much of it, that each article stood in the other's way, to
get a look at the little boy.

In the middle of the wall hung a picture representing a beautiful lady,
so young, so glad, but dressed quite as in former times, with clothes
that stood quite stiff, and with powder in her hair; she neither said
“thankee, thankee!” nor “cranky, cranky!” but looked with her mild eyes
at the little boy, who directly asked the old man, “Where did you get
her?”

“Yonder, at the broker's,” said the old man, “where there are so many
pictures hanging. No one knows or cares about them, for they are all of
them buried; but I knew her in by-gone days, and now she has been dead
and gone these fifty years!”

Under the picture, in a glazed frame, there hung a bouquet of withered
flowers; they were almost fifty years old; they looked so very old!

The pendulum of the great clock went to and fro, and the hands turned,
and everything in the room became still older; but they did not observe
it.

“They say at home,” said the little boy, “that you are so very, very
lonely!”