Now they lived a very lonely and happy life; and as they had no children
themselves, they had adopted a little common snail, which they brought
up as their own; but the little one would not grow, for he was of a
common family; but the old ones, especially Dame Mother Snail, thought
they could observe how he increased in size, and she begged father,
if he could not see it, that he would at least feel the little snail's
shell; and then he felt it, and found the good dame was right.

One day there was a heavy storm of rain.

“Hear how it beats like a drum on the dock-leaves!” said Father Snail.

“There are also rain-drops!” said Mother Snail. “And now the rain pours
right down the stalk! You will see that it will be wet here! I am very
happy to think that we have our good house, and the little one has
his also! There is more done for us than for all other creatures, sure
enough; but can you not see that we are folks of quality in the world?
We are provided with a house from our birth, and the burdock forest is
planted for our sakes! I should like to know how far it extends, and
what there is outside!”

“There is nothing at all,” said Father Snail. “No place can be better
than ours, and I have nothing to wish for!”

“Yes,” said the dame. “I would willingly go to the manorhouse, be
boiled, and laid on a silver dish; all our forefathers have been treated
so; there is something extraordinary in it, you may be sure!”

“The manor-house has most likely fallen to ruin!” said Father Snail. “Or
the burdocks have grown up over it, so that they cannot come out. There
need not, however, be any haste about that; but you are always in such a
tremendous hurry, and the little one is beginning to be the same. Has he
not been creeping up that stalk these three days? It gives me a headache
when I look up to him!”

“You must not scold him,” said Mother Snail. “He creeps so carefully; he
will afford us much pleasure--and we have nothing but him to live for!
But have you not thought of it? Where shall we get a wife for him? Do
you not think that there are some of our species at a great distance in
the interior of the burdock forest?”

“Black snails, I dare say, there are enough of,” said the old one.
“Black snails without a house--but they are so common, and so conceited.
But we might give the ants a commission to look out for us; they run
to and fro as if they had something to do, and they certainly know of a
wife for our little snail!”

“I know one, sure enough--the most charming one!” said one of the ants.
“But I am afraid we shall hardly succeed, for she is a queen!”

“That is nothing!” said the old folks. “Has she a house?”