“She has a palace!” said the ant. “The finest ant's palace, with seven
hundred passages!”

“I thank you!” said Mother Snail. “Our son shall not go into an
ant-hill; if you know nothing better than that, we shall give the
commission to the white gnats. They fly far and wide, in rain and
sunshine; they know the whole forest here, both within and without.”

“We have a wife for him,” said the gnats. “At a hundred human paces from
here there sits a little snail in her house, on a gooseberry bush; she
is quite lonely, and old enough to be married. It is only a hundred
human paces!”

“Well, then, let her come to him!” said the old ones. “He has a whole
forest of burdocks, she has only a bush!”

And so they went and fetched little Miss Snail. It was a whole week
before she arrived; but therein was just the very best of it, for one
could thus see that she was of the same species.

And then the marriage was celebrated. Six earth-worms shone as well as
they could. In other respects the whole went off very quietly, for the
old folks could not bear noise and merriment; but old Dame Snail made
a brilliant speech. Father Snail could not speak, he was too much
affected; and so they gave them as a dowry and inheritance, the whole
forest of burdocks, and said--what they had always said--that it was
the best in the world; and if they lived honestly and decently, and
increased and multiplied, they and their children would once in the
course of time come to the manor-house, be boiled black, and laid on
silver dishes. After this speech was made, the old ones crept into their
shells, and never more came out. They slept; the young couple governed
in the forest, and had a numerous progeny, but they were never boiled,
and never came on the silver dishes; so from this they concluded that
the manor-house had fallen to ruins, and that all the men in the world
were extinct; and as no one contradicted them, so, of course it was so.
And the rain beat on the dock-leaves to make drum-music for their sake,
and the sun shone in order to give the burdock forest a color for their
sakes; and they were very happy, and the whole family was happy; for
they, indeed were so.

THE STORY OF A MOTHER

A mother sat there with her little child. She was so downcast, so
afraid that it should die! It was so pale, the small eyes had closed
themselves, and it drew its breath so softly, now and then, with a
deep respiration, as if it sighed; and the mother looked still more
sorrowfully on the little creature.