The roads crossed each other in the depths of the forest, and she no
longer knew whither she should go! then there stood a thorn-bush;
there was neither leaf nor flower on it, it was also in the cold winter
season, and ice-flakes hung on the branches.

“Hast thou not seen Death go past with my little child?” said the
mother.

“Yes,” said the thorn-bush; “but I will not tell thee which way he took,
unless thou wilt first warm me up at thy heart. I am freezing to death;
I shall become a lump of ice!”

And she pressed the thorn-bush to her breast, so firmly, that it might
be thoroughly warmed, and the thorns went right into her flesh, and her
blood flowed in large drops, but the thornbush shot forth fresh green
leaves, and there came flowers on it in the cold winter night, the heart
of the afflicted mother was so warm; and the thorn-bush told her the way
she should go.

She then came to a large lake, where there was neither ship nor boat.
The lake was not frozen sufficiently to bear her; neither was it open,
nor low enough that she could wade through it; and across it she must go
if she would find her child! Then she lay down to drink up the lake, and
that was an impossibility for a human being, but the afflicted mother
thought that a miracle might happen nevertheless.

“Oh, what would I not give to come to my child!” said the weeping
mother; and she wept still more, and her eyes sunk down in the depths of
the waters, and became two precious pearls; but the water bore her up,
as if she sat in a swing, and she flew in the rocking waves to the shore
on the opposite side, where there stood a mile-broad, strange house, one
knew not if it were a mountain with forests and caverns, or if it were
built up; but the poor mother could not see it; she had wept her eyes
out.

“Where shall I find Death, who took away my little child?” said she.

“He has not come here yet!” said the old grave woman, who was appointed
to look after Death's great greenhouse! “How have you been able to find
the way hither? And who has helped you?”

“OUR LORD has helped me,” said she. “He is merciful, and you will also
be so! Where shall I find my little child?”

“Nay, I know not,” said the woman, “and you cannot see! Many flowers and
trees have withered this night; Death will soon come and plant them over
again! You certainly know that every person has his or her life's tree
or flower, just as everyone happens to be settled; they look like other
plants, but they have pulsations of the heart. Children's hearts can
also beat; go after yours, perhaps you may know your child's; but what
will you give me if I tell you what you shall do more?”