“Something common, is it not,” said the shadow. “But you yourself do not
belong to the common order; and I, as you know well, have from a child
followed in your footsteps. As soon as you found I was capable to go
out alone in the world, I went my own way. I am in the most brilliant
circumstances, but there came a sort of desire over me to see you once
more before you die; you will die, I suppose? I also wished to see this
land again--for you know we always love our native land. I know you have
got another shadow again; have I anything to pay to it or you? If so,
you will oblige me by saying what it is.”

“Nay, is it really thou?” said the learned man. “It is most remarkable:
I never imagined that one's old shadow could come again as a man.”

“Tell me what I have to pay,” said the shadow; “for I don't like to be
in any sort of debt.”

“How canst thou talk so?” said the learned man. “What debt is there to
talk about? Make thyself as free as anyone else. I am extremely glad to
hear of thy good fortune: sit down, old friend, and tell me a little
how it has gone with thee, and what thou hast seen at our opposite
neighbor's there--in the warm lands.”

“Yes, I will tell you all about it,” said the shadow, and sat down: “but
then you must also promise me, that, wherever you may meet me, you will
never say to anyone here in the town that I have been your shadow. I
intend to get betrothed, for I can provide for more than one family.”

“Be quite at thy ease about that,” said the learned man; “I shall not
say to anyone who thou actually art: here is my hand--I promise it, and
a man's bond is his word.”

“A word is a shadow,” said the shadow, “and as such it must speak.”

It was really quite astonishing how much of a man it was. It was dressed
entirely in black, and of the very finest cloth; it had patent leather
boots, and a hat that could be folded together, so that it was bare
crown and brim; not to speak of what we already know it had--seals, gold
neck-chain, and diamond rings; yes, the shadow was well-dressed, and it
was just that which made it quite a man.

“Now I shall tell you my adventures,” said the shadow; and then he
sat, with the polished boots, as heavily as he could, on the arm of the
learned man's new shadow, which lay like a poodle-dog at his feet.
Now this was perhaps from arrogance; and the shadow on the ground kept
itself so still and quiet, that it might hear all that passed: it wished
to know how it could get free, and work its way up, so as to become its
own master.