“Do you know who lived in our opposite neighbor's house?” said the
shadow. “It was the most charming of all beings, it was Poesy! I was
there for three weeks, and that has as much effect as if one had lived
three thousand years, and read all that was composed and written;
that is what I say, and it is right. I have seen everything and I know
everything!”

“Poesy!” cried the learned man. “Yes, yes, she often dwells a recluse
in large cities! Poesy! Yes, I have seen her--a single short moment,
but sleep came into my eyes! She stood on the balcony and shone as the
Aurora Borealis shines. Go on, go on--thou wert on the balcony, and went
through the doorway, and then--”

“Then I was in the antechamber,” said the shadow. “You always sat and
looked over to the antechamber. There was no light; there was a sort
of twilight, but the one door stood open directly opposite the other
through a long row of rooms and saloons, and there it was lighted up. I
should have been completely killed if I had gone over to the maiden; but
I was circumspect, I took time to think, and that one must always do.”

“And what didst thou then see?” asked the learned man.

“I saw everything, and I shall tell all to you: but--it is no pride on
my part--as a free man, and with the knowledge I have, not to speak of
my position in life, my excellent circumstances--I certainly wish that
you would say YOU* to me!”

* It is the custom in Denmark for intimate acquaintances to use the
second person singular, “Du,” (thou) when speaking to each other. When
a friendship is formed between men, they generally affirm it, when
occasion offers, either in public or private, by drinking to each other
and exclaiming, “thy health,” at the same time striking their glasses
together. This is called drinking “Duus”: they are then, “Duus Brodre,”
 (thou brothers) and ever afterwards use the pronoun “thou,” to each
other, it being regarded as more familiar than “De,” (you). Father and
mother, sister and brother say thou to one another--without regard to
age or rank. Master and mistress say thou to their servants the superior
to the inferior. But servants and inferiors do not use the same term
to their masters, or superiors--nor is it ever used when speaking to a
stranger, or anyone with whom they are but slightly acquainted--they
then say as in English--you.

“I beg your pardon,” said the learned man; “it is an old habit with me.
YOU are perfectly right, and I shall remember it; but now you must tell
me all YOU saw!”

“Everything!” said the shadow. “For I saw everything, and I know
everything!”

“How did it look in the furthest saloon?” asked the learned man. “Was it
there as in the fresh woods? Was it there as in a holy church? Were the
saloons like the starlit firmament when we stand on the high mountains?”