“But I don't!” said the shadow. “I become fat, and it is that one wants
to become! You do not understand the world. You will become ill by it.
You must travel! I shall make a tour this summer; will you go with me?
I should like to have a travelling companion! Will you go with me, as
shadow? It will be a great pleasure for me to have you with me; I shall
pay the travelling expenses!”

“Nay, this is too much!” said the learned man.

“It is just as one takes it!” said the shadow. “It will do you much good
to travel! Will you be my shadow? You shall have everything free on the
journey!”

“Nay, that is too bad!” said the learned man.

“But it is just so with the world!” said the shadow, “and so it will
be!” and away it went again.

The learned man was not at all in the most enviable state; grief and
torment followed him, and what he said about the true, and the good, and
the beautiful, was, to most persons, like roses for a cow! He was quite
ill at last.

“You really look like a shadow!” said his friends to him; and the
learned man trembled, for he thought of it.

“You must go to a watering-place!” said the shadow, who came and visited
him. “There is nothing else for it! I will take you with me for old
acquaintance' sake; I will pay the travelling expenses, and you write
the descriptions--and if they are a little amusing for me on the way!
I will go to a watering-place--my beard does not grow out as it
ought--that is also a sickness--and one must have a beard! Now you be
wise and accept the offer; we shall travel as comrades!”

And so they travelled; the shadow was master, and the master was the
care to keep itself in the master's place. Now the learned man didn't
think much about that; he was a very kind-hearted man, and particularly
mild and friendly, and so he said one day to the shadow: “As we have
now become companions, and in this way have grown up together from
childhood, shall we not drink 'thou' together, it is more familiar?”

“You are right,” said the shadow, who was now the proper master. “It is
said in a very straight-forward and well-meant manner. You, as a learned
man, certainly know how strange nature is. Some persons cannot bear to
touch grey paper, or they become ill; others shiver in every limb if one
rub a pane of glass with a nail: I have just such a feeling on hearing
you say thou to me; I feel myself as if pressed to the earth in my first
situation with you. You see that it is a feeling; that it is not pride:
I cannot allow you to say THOU to me, but I will willingly say THOU to
you, so it is half done!”

So the shadow said THOU to its former master.