“This is rather too bad,” thought he, “that I must say YOU and he say
THOU,” but he was now obliged to put up with it.

So they came to a watering-place where there were many strangers, and
amongst them was a princess, who was troubled with seeing too well; and
that was so alarming!

She directly observed that the stranger who had just come was quite a
different sort of person to all the others; “He has come here in order
to get his beard to grow, they say, but I see the real cause, he cannot
cast a shadow.”

She had become inquisitive; and so she entered into conversation
directly with the strange gentleman, on their promenades. As the
daughter of a king, she needed not to stand upon trifles, so she said,
“Your complaint is, that you cannot cast a shadow?”

“Your Royal Highness must be improving considerably,” said the shadow,
“I know your complaint is, that you see too clearly, but it has
decreased, you are cured. I just happen to have a very unusual shadow!
Do you not see that person who always goes with me? Other persons have
a common shadow, but I do not like what is common to all. We give our
servants finer cloth for their livery than we ourselves use, and so I
had my shadow trimmed up into a man: yes, you see I have even given him
a shadow. It is somewhat expensive, but I like to have something for
myself!”

“What!” thought the princess. “Should I really be cured! These baths are
the first in the world! In our time water has wonderful powers. But I
shall not leave the place, for it now begins to be amusing here. I am
extremely fond of that stranger: would that his beard should not grow,
for in that case he will leave us!”

In the evening, the princess and the shadow danced together in the large
ball-room. She was light, but he was still lighter; she had never had
such a partner in the dance. She told him from what land she came, and
he knew that land; he had been there, but then she was not at home; he
had peeped in at the window, above and below--he had seen both the
one and the other, and so he could answer the princess, and make
insinuations, so that she was quite astonished; he must be the wisest
man in the whole world! She felt such respect for what he knew! So that
when they again danced together she fell in love with him; and that the
shadow could remark, for she almost pierced him through with her eyes.
So they danced once more together; and she was about to declare herself,
but she was discreet; she thought of her country and kingdom, and of the
many persons she would have to reign over.