“He is a wise man,” said she to herself--“It is well; and he dances
delightfully--that is also good; but has he solid knowledge? That is
just as important! He must be examined.”

So she began, by degrees, to question him about the most difficult
things she could think of, and which she herself could not have
answered; so that the shadow made a strange face.

“You cannot answer these questions?” said the princess.

“They belong to my childhood's learning,” said the shadow. “I really
believe my shadow, by the door there, can answer them!”

“Your shadow!” said the princess. “That would indeed be marvellous!”

“I will not say for a certainty that he can,” said the shadow, “but I
think so; he has now followed me for so many years, and listened to my
conversation--I should think it possible. But your royal highness will
permit me to observe, that he is so proud of passing himself off for
a man, that when he is to be in a proper humor--and he must be so to
answer well--he must be treated quite like a man.”

“Oh! I like that!” said the princess.

So she went to the learned man by the door, and she spoke to him about
the sun and the moon, and about persons out of and in the world, and he
answered with wisdom and prudence.

“What a man that must be who has so wise a shadow!” thought she. “It
will be a real blessing to my people and kingdom if I choose him for my
consort--I will do it!”

They were soon agreed, both the princess and the shadow; but no one was
to know about it before she arrived in her own kingdom.

“No one--not even my shadow!” said the shadow, and he had his own
thoughts about it!

Now they were in the country where the princess reigned when she was at
home.

“Listen, my good friend,” said the shadow to the learned man. “I have
now become as happy and mighty as anyone can be; I will, therefore, do
something particular for thee! Thou shalt always live with me in the
palace, drive with me in my royal carriage, and have ten thousand
pounds a year; but then thou must submit to be called SHADOW by all and
everyone; thou must not say that thou hast ever been a man; and once
a year, when I sit on the balcony in the sunshine, thou must lie at my
feet, as a shadow shall do! I must tell thee: I am going to marry the
king's daughter, and the nuptials are to take place this evening!”

“Nay, this is going too far!” said the learned man. “I will not have it;
I will not do it! It is to deceive the whole country and the princess
too! I will tell everything! That I am a man, and that thou art a
shadow--thou art only dressed up!”

“There is no one who will believe it!” said the shadow. “Be reasonable,
or I will call the guard!”