“I will go directly to the princess!” said the learned man.

“But I will go first!” said the shadow. “And thou wilt go to prison!”
 and that he was obliged to do--for the sentinels obeyed him whom they
knew the king's daughter was to marry.

“You tremble!” said the princess, as the shadow came into her chamber.
“Has anything happened? You must not be unwell this evening, now that we
are to have our nuptials celebrated.”

“I have lived to see the most cruel thing that anyone can live to
see!” said the shadow. “Only imagine--yes, it is true, such a poor
shadow-skull cannot bear much--only think, my shadow has become mad;
he thinks that he is a man, and that I--now only think--that I am his
shadow!”

“It is terrible!” said the princess; “but he is confined, is he not?”

“That he is. I am afraid that he will never recover.”

“Poor shadow!” said the princess. “He is very unfortunate; it would be
a real work of charity to deliver him from the little life he has, and,
when I think properly over the matter, I am of opinion that it will be
necessary to do away with him in all stillness!”

“It is certainly hard,” said the shadow, “for he was a faithful
servant!” and then he gave a sort of sigh.

“You are a noble character!” said the princess.

The whole city was illuminated in the evening, and the cannons went off
with a bum! bum! and the soldiers presented arms. That was a marriage!
The princess and the shadow went out on the balcony to show themselves,
and get another hurrah!

The learned man heard nothing of all this--for they had deprived him of
life.

THE LITTLE MATCH GIRL

Most terribly cold it was; it snowed, and was nearly quite dark, and
evening--the last evening of the year. In this cold and darkness there
went along the street a poor little girl, bareheaded, and with naked
feet. When she left home she had slippers on, it is true; but what was
the good of that? They were very large slippers, which her mother had
hitherto worn; so large were they; and the poor little thing lost them
as she scuffled away across the street, because of two carriages that
rolled by dreadfully fast.

One slipper was nowhere to be found; the other had been laid hold of by
an urchin, and off he ran with it; he thought it would do capitally for
a cradle when he some day or other should have children himself. So the
little maiden walked on with her tiny naked feet, that were quite red
and blue from cold. She carried a quantity of matches in an old apron,
and she held a bundle of them in her hand. Nobody had bought anything of
her the whole livelong day; no one had given her a single farthing.

She crept along trembling with cold and hunger--a very picture of
sorrow, the poor little thing!