The flakes of snow covered her long fair hair, which fell in beautiful
curls around her neck; but of that, of course, she never once now
thought. From all the windows the candles were gleaming, and it smelt so
deliciously of roast goose, for you know it was New Year's Eve; yes, of
that she thought.

In a corner formed by two houses, of which one advanced more than the
other, she seated herself down and cowered together. Her little feet
she had drawn close up to her, but she grew colder and colder, and to go
home she did not venture, for she had not sold any matches and could
not bring a farthing of money: from her father she would certainly get
blows, and at home it was cold too, for above her she had only the roof,
through which the wind whistled, even though the largest cracks were
stopped up with straw and rags.

Her little hands were almost numbed with cold. Oh! a match might afford
her a world of comfort, if she only dared take a single one out of the
bundle, draw it against the wall, and warm her fingers by it. She drew
one out. “Rischt!” how it blazed, how it burnt! It was a warm, bright
flame, like a candle, as she held her hands over it: it was a wonderful
light. It seemed really to the little maiden as though she were sitting
before a large iron stove, with burnished brass feet and a brass
ornament at top. The fire burned with such blessed influence; it warmed
so delightfully. The little girl had already stretched out her feet to
warm them too; but--the small flame went out, the stove vanished: she
had only the remains of the burnt-out match in her hand.

She rubbed another against the wall: it burned brightly, and where the
light fell on the wall, there the wall became transparent like a
veil, so that she could see into the room. On the table was spread a
snow-white tablecloth; upon it was a splendid porcelain service, and the
roast goose was steaming famously with its stuffing of apple and dried
plums. And what was still more capital to behold was, the goose hopped
down from the dish, reeled about on the floor with knife and fork in its
breast, till it came up to the poor little girl; when--the match went
out and nothing but the thick, cold, damp wall was left behind.
She lighted another match. Now there she was sitting under the most
magnificent Christmas tree: it was still larger, and more decorated than
the one which she had seen through the glass door in the rich merchant's
house.