And all good children to whom he related this story, took great heed
of this naughty Cupid; but he made fools of them still, for he is
astonishingly cunning. When the university students come from the
lectures, he runs beside them in a black coat, and with a book under his
arm. It is quite impossible for them to know him, and they walk along
with him arm in arm, as if he, too, were a student like themselves; and
then, unperceived, he thrusts an arrow to their bosom. When the young
maidens come from being examined by the clergyman, or go to church to
be confirmed, there he is again close behind them. Yes, he is forever
following people. At the play, he sits in the great chandelier and burns
in bright flames, so that people think it is really a flame, but they
soon discover it is something else. He roves about in the garden of the
palace and upon the ramparts: yes, once he even shot your father and
mother right in the heart. Ask them only and you will hear what they'll
tell you. Oh, he is a naughty boy, that Cupid; you must never have
anything to do with him. He is forever running after everybody. Only
think, he shot an arrow once at your old grandmother! But that is a
long time ago, and it is all past now; however, a thing of that sort she
never forgets. Fie, naughty Cupid! But now you know him, and you know,
too, how ill-behaved he is!

THE RED SHOES

There was once a little girl who was very pretty and delicate, but in
summer she was forced to run about with bare feet, she was so poor, and
in winter wear very large wooden shoes, which made her little insteps
quite red, and that looked so dangerous!

In the middle of the village lived old Dame Shoemaker; she sat and sewed
together, as well as she could, a little pair of shoes out of old red
strips of cloth; they were very clumsy, but it was a kind thought. They
were meant for the little girl. The little girl was called Karen.

On the very day her mother was buried, Karen received the red shoes,
and wore them for the first time. They were certainly not intended for
mourning, but she had no others, and with stockingless feet she followed
the poor straw coffin in them.

Suddenly a large old carriage drove up, and a large old lady sat in it:
she looked at the little girl, felt compassion for her, and then said to
the clergyman:

“Here, give me the little girl. I will adopt her!”

And Karen believed all this happened on account of the red shoes, but
the old lady thought they were horrible, and they were burnt. But Karen
herself was cleanly and nicely dressed; she must learn to read and sew;
and people said she was a nice little thing, but the looking-glass said:
“Thou art more than nice, thou art beautiful!”