“Livesey,” returned the squire, “you are always in the right of it. I’ll
be as silent as the grave.”

PART TWO--The Sea-cook

VII
I Go to Bristol

It was longer than the squire imagined ere we were ready for the sea,
and none of our first plans--not even Dr. Livesey’s, of keeping me
beside him--could be carried out as we intended. The doctor had to go
to London for a physician to take charge of his practice; the squire was
hard at work at Bristol; and I lived on at the hall under the charge of
old Redruth, the gamekeeper, almost a prisoner, but full of sea-dreams
and the most charming anticipations of strange islands and adventures.
I brooded by the hour together over the map, all the details of which
I well remembered. Sitting by the fire in the housekeeper’s room, I
approached that island in my fancy from every possible direction; I
explored every acre of its surface; I climbed a thousand times to that
tall hill they call the Spy-glass, and from the top enjoyed the most
wonderful and changing prospects. Sometimes the isle was thick with
savages, with whom we fought, sometimes full of dangerous animals that
hunted us, but in all my fancies nothing occurred to me so strange and
tragic as our actual adventures.

So the weeks passed on, till one fine day there came a letter addressed
to Dr. Livesey, with this addition, “To be opened, in the case of his
absence, by Tom Redruth or young Hawkins.” Obeying this order, we
found, or rather I found--for the gamekeeper was a poor hand at reading
anything but print--the following important news:

_Old Anchor Inn, Bristol, March 1, 17--._

Dear Livesey--As I do not know whether you
     are at the hall or still in London, I send this in
     double to both places.

The ship is bought and fitted.  She lies at
     anchor, ready for sea.  You never imagined a
     sweeter schooner--a child might sail her--two
     hundred tons; name, HISPANIOLA.

I got her through my old friend, Blandly, who
     has proved himself throughout the most surprising
     trump.  The admirable fellow literally slaved in
     my interest, and so, I may say, did everyone in
     Bristol, as soon as they got wind of the port we
     sailed for--treasure, I mean.

“Redruth,” said I, interrupting the letter, “Dr. Livesey will not like
that. The squire has been talking, after all.”

“Well, who’s a better right?” growled the gamekeeper. “A pretty rum go
if squire ain’t to talk for Dr. Livesey, I should think.”

At that I gave up all attempts at commentary and read straight on:

merest trifle.  There is a class of men in Bristol
     monstrously prejudiced against Blandly.  They go
     the length of declaring that this honest creature
     would do anything for money, that the HISPANIOLA
     belonged to him, and that he sold it me absurdly
     high--the most transparent calumnies.  None of them
     dare, however, to deny the merits of the ship.