Silver suddenly sprang up, and supporting himself with a hand against
the wall: “Now I give you warning, George,” he cried. “One more word
of your sauce, and I’ll call you down and fight you. How? Why, how do I
know? You had ought to tell me that--you and the rest, that lost me my
schooner, with your interference, burn you! But not you, you can’t; you
hain’t got the invention of a cockroach. But civil you can speak, and
shall, George Merry, you may lay to that.”

“That’s fair enow,” said the old man Morgan.

“Fair! I reckon so,” said the sea-cook. “You lost the ship; I found the
treasure. Who’s the better man at that? And now I resign, by thunder!
Elect whom you please to be your cap’n now; I’m done with it.”

“Silver!” they cried. “Barbecue forever! Barbecue for cap’n!”

“So that’s the toon, is it?” cried the cook. “George, I reckon you’ll
have to wait another turn, friend; and lucky for you as I’m not a
revengeful man. But that was never my way. And now, shipmates, this
black spot? ’Tain’t much good now, is it? Dick’s crossed his luck and
spoiled his Bible, and that’s about all.”

“It’ll do to kiss the book on still, won’t it?” growled Dick, who was
evidently uneasy at the curse he had brought upon himself.

“A Bible with a bit cut out!” returned Silver derisively. “Not it. It
don’t bind no more’n a ballad-book.”

“Don’t it, though?” cried Dick with a sort of joy. “Well, I reckon
that’s worth having too.”

“Here, Jim--here’s a cur’osity for you,” said Silver, and he tossed me
the paper.

It was around about the size of a crown piece. One side was blank,
for it had been the last leaf; the other contained a verse or two of
Revelation--these words among the rest, which struck sharply home upon
my mind: “Without are dogs and murderers.” The printed side had been
blackened with wood ash, which already began to come off and soil my
fingers; on the blank side had been written with the same material the
one word “Depposed.” I have that curiosity beside me at this moment, but
not a trace of writing now remains beyond a single scratch, such as a
man might make with his thumb-nail.

That was the end of the night’s business. Soon after, with a drink all
round, we lay down to sleep, and the outside of Silver’s vengeance was
to put George Merry up for sentinel and threaten him with death if he
should prove unfaithful.