The fable on pages 197-200 is a translation of La Fontaine’s metrical
version of one of the most popular of the Æsop Fables. La Fontaine, who
died at Paris in 1695, was a popular writer of drama and the most noted
of the French fabulists. Following this, on pages 201-214, are fables
from the Russian of Kriloff, a writer who for nearly twenty years was
one of the librarians at the Imperial Public Library at St. Petersburg,
in which city he died in 1844.

ÆSOP’S FABLES

ÆSOP’S FABLES

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

ONE day a Wolf and a Lamb happened to come at the same time to drink
from a brook that ran down the side of the mountain.

The Wolf wished very much to eat the Lamb, but meeting her as he did,
face to face, he thought he must find some excuse for doing so.

So he began by trying to pick a quarrel, and said angrily: “How dare
you come to my brook and muddy the water so that I cannot drink it?
What do you mean?”

The Lamb, very much alarmed, said gently: “I do not see how it can be
that I have spoiled the water. You stand higher up the stream, and the
water runs from you to me, not from me to you.”

“Be that as it may,” said the Wolf, with a snarl, “you are a rascal all
the same, for I have heard that last year you said bad things of me
behind my back.”

“Dear Mr. Wolf,” cried the poor Lamb, “that could not be, for a year
ago I was not born; I am only six months old.”

Finding it of no use to argue any more, the Wolf began to snarl and
show his teeth. Coming closer to the Lamb, he said, “You little wretch,
if it was not you it was your father, so it’s all the same”; and he
pounced upon the poor Lamb and ate her up.

THE FOX AND THE LION

A LITTLE fox was out playing one day, when a Lion came roaring along.
“Dear me,” said the Fox, as he hid behind a tree, “I never saw a Lion
before. What a terrible creature! His voice makes me tremble.”

The next time the Fox met the Lion he was not so much afraid, but he
kept a safe distance and said to himself, “I wish he would not make
such a noise!”

The third time they met, the Fox was not frightened at all. He ran up
to the Lion, and said, “What are you roaring about?”

And the Lion was so taken by surprise that, without saying a word, he
let the Fox walk away.

It would not be safe for little foxes always to follow the example of
this one; but it is often true that what our fear makes seem a lion in
the way has no danger in it if we meet it bravely.

THE DOG AND HIS SHADOW