A DOG once had a nice piece of meat for his dinner. Some say that it
was stolen, but others, that it had been given him by a butcher, which
we hope was the case.

Dogs like best to eat at home, and he went trotting along with the meat
in his mouth, as happy as a king.

On the dog’s way there was a stream with a plank across it. As the
water was still and clear, he stopped to take a look at it. What
should he see, as he gazed into its bright depths, but a dog as big as
himself, looking up at him, and lo! the dog had meat in his mouth.

“I’ll try to get that,” said he; “then with both mine and his what a
feast I shall have!” As quick as thought he snapped at the meat, but in
doing so he had to open his mouth, and his own piece fell to the bottom
of the stream.

Then he saw that the other dog had lost his piece, too. He went sadly
home. In trying to grasp a shadow he lost his substance.

THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER

“MY child,” said a Crab to her son, “why do you walk so awkwardly? If
you wish to make a good appearance, you should go straight forward, and
not to one side as you do so constantly.”

“I do wish to make a good appearance, mamma,” said the young Crab; “and
if you will show me how, I will try to walk straight forward.”

“Why, this is the way, of course,” said the mother, as she started off
to the right. “No, this is the way,” said she, as she made another
attempt, to the left.

The little Crab smiled. “When you learn to do it yourself, you can
teach me,” he said, and went back to his play.

THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

IT WAS a sultry day, and a Fox was almost famishing with hunger and
thirst. He was just saying to himself that anything would be acceptable
to him, when, looking up, he spied some great clusters of ripe, black
grapes hanging from a trellised vine.

“What luck!” he said; “if only they weren’t quite so high, I should
be sure of a fine feast. I wonder if I can get them. I can think of
nothing that would so refresh me.”

Jumping into the air is not the easiest thing in the world for a Fox to
do; but he gave a great spring and nearly reached the lowest clusters.

“I’ll do better next time,” he said.

He tried again and again, but did not succeed so well as at first.
Finding that he was losing his strength and that he had little chance
of getting the grapes, he walked slowly off, grumbling as he did so:
“The grapes are sour, and not at all fit for my eating. I’ll leave them
to the greedy birds. They eat anything.”

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE