Jupiter laughed at their folly, for he knew that they were better off
as they were; but he said to them, “Well, here is a King for you,” and
into the water he threw a big Log.

It fell with such a splash that the Frogs were terrified and hid

saw the Log, as it lay quietly on the top of the water. Soon, one after
another they all came out of their hiding places and ventured to look
at their great King.

As the Log did not move, they swam round it, keeping a safe distance
away, and at last one by one hopped upon it.

“This is not a King,” said a wise old Frog; “it is nothing but a stupid
Log. If we had a King, Jupiter would pay more attention to us.”

Again they sent to Jupiter, and begged him to give them a King who
could rule over them.

Jupiter did not like to be disturbed again by the silly Frogs, and this
time he sent them a Stork, saying, “You will have some one to rule
over you now.”

As they saw the Stork solemnly walking down to the lake, they were
delighted.

“Ah!” they said, “see how grand he looks! How he strides along! How he
throws back his head! This is a King indeed. He shall rule over us,”
and they went joyfully to meet him.

As their new King came nearer, he paused, stretched out his long neck,
picked up the head Frog, and swallowed him at one mouthful. And then
the next—and the next!

“What is this?” cried the Frogs, and they began to draw back in terror.

But the Stork with his long legs easily followed them to the water, and
kept on eating them as fast as he could.

“Oh! if we had only been—” said the oldest Frog. He was going to add
“content,” but was eaten up before he could finish the sentence.

The remaining Frogs cried to Jupiter to help them, but he would not
listen. And the Stork-King ate them for breakfast, dinner, and supper,
every day, till in a short time there was not a Frog left in the lake.
Poor, foolish Frogs, not to have known when they were well off.

THE DONKEY IN THE LION’S SKIN

A DONKEY once put on a Lion’s skin which some hunters had spread out
to dry. It did not fit the Donkey very well, but he found that in it
he could frighten all the timid, foolish little animals, so he amused

“My dear Donkey,” said the wise Fox, “you are braying, and not roaring.
I might, perhaps, have been frightened by your looks, if you had not
tried to roar; but I know your voice too well to mistake you for a
Lion.”

THE MICE IN COUNCIL