SOME little Mice, who lived in the walls of a house, met together
one night, to talk of the wicked Cat and to consider what could be
done to get rid of her. The head Mice were Brown-back, Gray-ear, and
White-whisker.

“There is no comfort in the house,” said Brown-back. “If I but step
into the pantry to pick up a few crumbs, down comes the Cat, and I have
hardly time to run to my nest again.”

“What can we do?” asked Gray-ear. “Shall we all run at her at once and
bite her, and frighten her away?”

“No,” said White-whisker; “she is so bold we could not frighten her. I
have thought of something better than that. Let us hang a bell round
her neck. Then, if she moves, the bell will ring, and we shall hear it,
and have time to run away.”

“O yes! yes!” cried all the Mice. “That is a capital idea. We will bell
the Cat! Hurrah! hurrah! No more fear of the Cat!” and they danced in
glee.

When their glee had subsided a little, Brown-back asked, “But who will
hang the bell round her neck?”

No one answered. “Will you?” he asked of White-whisker.

“I don’t think I can,” replied White-whisker; “I am lame, you know. It
needs some one who can move quickly.”

“Will you, Gray-ear?” said Brown-back.

“Excuse me,” answered Gray-ear; “I have not been well since that time
when I was almost caught in the trap.”

“Who will bell the Cat, then?” said Brown-back. “If it is to be done,
some one must do it.”

Not a sound was heard, and one by one the little Mice stole away to
their holes, no better off than they were before.

When there is trouble there is need of some one to act, as well as some
one to advise.

THE KID AND THE WOLF

A KID coming home alone one night met a big Wolf. “Oh, oh, I know you
will kill me,” said the little Kid; “but please play me a tune, so that
I may have one more dance before I die; I am so fond of dancing.”

“Very well,” said the Wolf, “I will try, for I should like to see you
dance before I eat you.”

Then the Wolf took up the shepherd’s pipe that was lying near, and
began to play. But while he was playing, and the Kid was dancing a jig,
the Dogs heard the sound, and came running up.

“It is my own fault,” said the Wolf, as the Dogs caught him. “My
business is to kill Kids and eat them, and not to play for them to
dance. Why did I try to be a Piper, when I am really only a Butcher?”

“You didn’t play very well, either,” said the Kid.

THE HAWK AND THE NIGHTINGALE

A NIGHTINGALE sitting on the top of an oak, singing her evening song,
was spied by a hungry Hawk, who swooped down and seized her. The
frightened Nightingale prayed the Hawk to let her go.