“If you are hungry,” said she, “why not catch some large bird? I am not
big enough for even a luncheon.”

“Do you happen to see many large birds flying about?” said the Hawk.
“You are the only bird I have seen to-day, and I should be foolish
indeed to let you go for the sake of larger birds that are not in
sight. A morsel is better than nothing.”

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

A THIRSTY Crow once spied a pitcher, and flew to it to see if by chance
there was any water in it.

When she looked in, she saw that there was water, but that it was so
far from the top that she could not reach it, though she stretched her
neck as far as she could.

She stopped, and thought to herself, “How shall I get that water? I am
perishing with thirst, and there must be some way for me to get some
of it.” Some pebbles were lying on the ground; and, picking them up in
her beak, she dropped them one by one into the pitcher.

They sank to the bottom; and at last the water was pushed up by them to
the top, so that the Crow could easily drink it.

“Where there’s a will, there’s a way,” said the Crow.

THE ANT AND THE DOVE

AN Ant, walking by the river one day, said to himself, “How nice and
cool this water looks! I must drink some of it.” But as he began to
drink, his foot slipped, and he fell in.

“Oh, somebody please help me, or I shall drown!” cried he.

A Dove, sitting in a tree that overhung the river, heard him, and threw
him a leaf. “Climb up on that leaf,” said she, “and you will float
ashore.”

The Ant climbed up onto the leaf, which the wind blew to the shore, and
he stepped upon dry land again.

“Good-by, kind Dove,” said he, as he ran home. “You have saved my life,
and I wish I could do something for you.”

“Good-by,” said the Dove; “be careful not to fall in again.”

A few days after this, when the Dove was busy building her nest, the
Ant saw a man just raising his gun to shoot her.

He ran quickly, and bit the man’s leg so hard that he cried “Oh! oh!”
and dropped his gun.

This startled the Dove, and she flew away. The man picked up his gun,
and walked on.

When he was gone, the Dove came back to her nest.

“Thank you, my little friend,” she said. “You have saved my life.”

And the little Ant was overjoyed to think he had been able to do for
the Dove what the Dove had so lately done for him.

THE OX AND THE FROG

AN Ox, drinking at a pool, chanced to set his foot on a young Frog, and
crushed him to death.