“What an ugly, snappish fellow!” said the Ox. “He will neither eat the
hay himself nor let us eat it!”

THE MOUSE, THE FROG, AND THE HAWK

A MOUSE, who had always lived on the land, and a Frog, who passed most
of his time in the water, became friends.

The Mouse showed the Frog his nest and everything he could think of
that was pleasant to see; and the Frog invited the Mouse to go home
with him and see all the beautiful things that are under the water.

“Can you swim?” asked the Frog.

“Not much,” said the Mouse.

“No matter,” said the Frog; “I will tie your foot to my foot with a
piece of this strong grass, and then I can pull you along nicely.” The
Frog laughed as he said this. He thought it would be good fun for him,
but he well knew that the Mouse would not enjoy it.

When the Frog had tied the Mouse’s foot to his own, they started
together across the meadow. They soon came to the edge of the water,
and the Frog jumped in, pulling the Mouse in with him.

“Oh, how cool and nice the water is, after the dry, hot land!” said the
Frog, as he swam gayly about. But the poor Mouse was frightened.

“Please let me go,” said he, “or I shall die.”

“Oh, never mind,” said the unkind Frog; “you will get used to the
water. I just love it.”

But soon the poor Mouse was drowned, and floated up to the top of the
water, while the Frog frisked about down below.

Just then a Hawk saw the Mouse, and pounced upon it.

As he flew away with it the Frog was dragged out of the water, too, for
he was still tied to the Mouse.

“Stop, stop!” cried the Frog. “Let me go. It is the Mouse you want.”

“Come along,” said the Hawk; “I want you both. I will eat you first,
for I like Frog meat even better than I do Mouse.”

In a few moments the Hawk had made a good supper, and there was nothing
left of either the false Frog or the foolish Mouse.

THE SHEPHERD’S BOY AND THE WOLF

A MAN who had a fine flock of Sheep put them all into a field, and
hired a Boy to take care of them, while he worked near by with his Men.

The Sheep went nibbling the grass all day, up and down the hills and
along the brook; and all that the Boy had to do was to look out for the
Wolf, and see that he did not come prowling into the field.