After a while the Boy began to wish that something would happen, it
was so tiresome staying there all alone, with no one to speak to and
nothing to do. He wished he could be with the Men in the next field,
or that they could come and stay with him. All at once he thought to
himself, “I will make them think the Wolf has come. That will be great
fun.”

So he called out as loudly as he could, “Help! help! The Wolf!” and all
the Men came running up.

When they found it was only a joke, they laughed, and went back to
their work.

On the next day the Boy tried the same trick again. As before, the Men
dropped their mattocks and spades, for fear there might be danger, and
ran to the help of the Boy. He only laughed at them for their pains,
and this time they did not relish the joke. Still the Boy did not give
it up. Again he shouted “Wolf! Wolf!” till the Men took no notice of
him when he called them, no matter how loudly or how long he shouted.

After a while, the Wolf did get into the field. Then in real terror the
Boy called and called: “Pray do come and help me. The Wolf is killing
the sheep. The Wolf! the Wolf!” But no one gave heed to his cries.
Finding only a terrified coward in care of the flock, the Wolf left few
of them uninjured.

THE FISHERMAN AND THE LITTLE FISH

ALL day long a Fisherman had been toiling and had caught nothing.

“I will make one more effort,” thought he, “and then I must go home.”

He threw in his line, and soon drew up a very small perch.

The little Fish was terribly frightened when he found himself out of
water, and with a sharp hook sticking in his mouth; and he said to the
Fisherman:

“O sir, take pity upon me, and throw me into the water again! See what
a little thing I am. I should not make one mouthful for you now; but
if you leave me in the water, I shall grow large and stout, and then I
shall be worth catching. You can make a dinner of me then, or sell me
for a good price.”

“Ah!” said the Fisherman, “it is true you are small, but I have you
safely now. If I should throw you back, I might never catch you again.
You are better than nothing. I will keep you”; and he put the little
Fish into his basket, and took him home with him.

THE FOX AND THE CROW

A CROW stole a piece of cheese one day, and flew with it up into a
tree, so as to eat it at her leisure.

As she sat there, holding it in her beak, a Fox chanced to pass by, and
looking up saw her. “How good that cheese smells!” thought he; “I’ll
have it, sure as I’m a Fox.”