Coming close to the tree, he said, “My dear Madam, what a beautiful
creature you are! I was not aware till this moment what rare beauty
your family possesses. What eyes! What glossy feathers! What grace of
form! Is your voice as charming to hear, as your person is to look
upon? If it is, you well deserve to be called the Queen of Birds. Will
you not do me the favor to sing to me?”

Now it is well known that the Caw! Caw! of the Crow family is not
musical. She ought to have been on her guard, but so delighted was she
with the flattery of the Fox that she forgot to be wary. She opened her
mouth to show the Fox the sweetness of her voice, when—down fell the
bit of cheese, which was exactly what was expected.

The Fox ate it at one mouthful, then stopped to say, “Thank you, madam.
I am quite satisfied. Your voice is well enough, I have no doubt. What
a pity it is you are so sadly wanting in wit!”

*       *       *       *       *

The Crow learned that we do well to be on our guard when people flatter
us.

THE PARTRIDGE AND THE FOWLER

A FOWLER caught a Partridge, and was just going to kill it.

“Wait a moment,” said the Partridge; “don’t kill me.”

“Why not?” said the Fowler.

“Because I like to live,” said the Partridge; “and, besides, if you let
me go, I will bring some of my friends and neighbors here, and you can
catch them, and that will be better than only one poor bird.”

“You are willing, then, that your friends and neighbors should die, to
save your own life?” said the Fowler. “Wicked Partridge! you have lived
long enough.” And he killed it.

THE THIRSTY PIGEON

A PIGEON who was very thirsty saw a goblet of water painted on a
signboard.

Without stopping to see what it was, she flew to it with a loud whir,
and dashing against the signboard, jarred herself terribly. Having
broken her wings, she fell to the ground, and was caught by a man, who
said, “Your zeal should never outrun your caution.”

THE THREE TRADESMEN

A GREAT city was once besieged, and all its inhabitants were gathered
together to consider by what means it might be protected from the
enemy.

A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as the best materials for
successful defense.

A Carpenter with equal energy proposed timber as a preferable means of
defense.

Hearing which, a Currier stood up and said, “Sirs, I differ with you
wholly. There is no material for resistance equal to a covering of
hides, and nothing in the present case so good as leather.”

*       *       *       *       *

Every man for his own trade.

THE HARES AND THE FROGS

IN A FOREST, deep, shady, and still, there once lived a company of
Hares.