Whenever a leaf fell rustling to the ground, or a squirrel, jumping in
the branches, broke a twig, the Hares started and trembled, they were
so timid.

One day there came a great wind, rushing through the tops of the trees
with a roaring noise, and waving the branches back and forth.

It frightened the Hares so much that they all started together, running
as fast as they could to get out of the forest, which had been their
home.

“What a sad state is ours,” they said, “never to eat in comfort, to
sleep always in fear, to be startled by a shadow, and fly with beating
heart at the rustling of the leaves. Better death, by far. Let us drown
ourselves in yonder lake.”

But when they came to the lake, it happened that there were scores
of frogs sporting on the banks; who, when they heard the sound of
footsteps, jumped into the water.

The timid Hares were startled by the splash; but, as they saw the frogs
dive to the bottom of the lake, a wise old Hare said, “Stop a moment!
let us consider. Here are creatures that are more timid than we—they
are afraid even of us. See, they are drowning themselves for fear of
us! It may not be so bad with us as we thought. Perhaps we have been
foolish, as foolish as the frogs, who are alarmed when there is no
danger. Let us make the best of our lot, and try to be brave in it.” So
back they went again to the forest.

THE EAGLE AND THE ARROW

A MOST rapacious Eagle had his eyrie on a lofty rock. Sitting there, he
could watch the movements of the animals he wished to make his prey,
and, waiting his opportunity, seize them and bear them away.

The poor creatures had no protection from such a foe. But an archer saw
him one day watching, from his place of concealment, the movements of
an unsuspicious hare; and, taking aim, he wounded him mortally.

The Eagle gave one look at the Arrow that had entered his heart, and
saw that its feathers had been furnished by himself, when descending to
secure prey.

THE EAGLE AND THE FOX

ONE day a mother Eagle came flying out of her nest to look for food for
her babies. She circled round and round, far up in the air, looking

while, like the Eagle, she went for food.

Down came the bird, whir went her wings, and away she soared again,
with the little Fox clutched fast in her claws.

The poor mother Fox just at that moment came running home to her child,
and saw it being carried away.

“O Eagle!” she cried, “leave me my one little baby. Remember your own
children, and how you would feel if one of them should be taken away.
Oh, bring back my poor cub!”