The next time the Frog from the pond came to visit his friend, he could
not find him.

“Too late!” sang a Bird, who lived in a tree that overhung the pool.

“What do you mean?” said the Frog.

“Dead and gone!” said the Bird. “Run over by a wagon and killed, two
days ago, and a big Hawk came and carried him off.”

“Alas! if he had only taken my advice, he might have been well and
happy now,” said the Frog, as he turned sadly towards home; “but he
would have his way, and I have lost my friend.”

THE LION AND THE MOUSE

IT ONCE happened that a hungry Lion woke to find a Mouse just under his
paw. He caught the tiny creature, and was about to make a mouthful of
him, when the little fellow looked up, and began to beg for his life.

In most piteous tones the Mouse said: “Do not eat me. I meant no harm
coming so near you. If you would only spare my life now, O Lion, I
would be sure to repay you!”

The Lion laughed scornfully at this, but it amused him so much that he
lifted his paw and let his brave little prisoner go free.

It befell the great Lion, not long afterward, to be in as evil a case
as had been the helpless Mouse. And it came about that his life was to
be saved by the keeping of the promise he had ridiculed.

He was caught by some hunters, who bound him with a strong rope, while
they went away to find means for killing him.

Hearing his loud groans, the Mouse came promptly to his rescue, and
gnawed the great rope till the royal captive could set himself free.

“You laughed,” the little Mouse said, “at the idea of my being able to
be of service to you. You little thought I should repay you. But you
see it has come to pass that you are as grateful to me as I was once to
you. The weak have their place in the world as truly as the strong.”

THE MOUSE, THE CAT, AND THE COCK

A YOUNG Mouse, that had not seen much of the world, came home one day
and said: “O mother! I have had such a fright! I saw a great creature
strutting about on two legs. I wonder what it was! On his head was a
red cap. His eyes were fierce and stared at me, and he had a sharp
mouth.