“All at once he stretched his long neck, and opened his mouth so wide,
and roared so loud, that I thought he was going to eat me up, and I
ran home as fast as I could. I was sorry that I met him, for I had
just seen a lovely animal, greater even than he, and would have made
friends with her. She had soft fur like ours, only it was gray and
white. Her eyes were mild and sleepy, and she looked at me very gently
and waved her long tail from side to side. I thought she wished to
speak to me, and I would have gone near her, but that dreadful thing
began to roar, and I ran away.”

“My dear child,” said the mother, “you did well to run away. The fierce
thing you speak of would have done you no harm. It was a harmless Cock.
But that soft, pretty thing was the Cat, and she would have eaten you
up in a minute, for she is the worst enemy you have in the whole world.
Appearances are not always to be trusted.”

THE AX AND THE TREES

ONCE upon a time a man came to a forest to ask the Trees if they would
give him some wood to make a handle for his Ax.

The Trees thought this was very little to ask of them, and they gave
him a good piece of hard wood. But as soon as the man had fitted the
handle to his Ax, he went to work to chop down all the best Trees in
the forest.

As they fell groaning and crashing to the ground, they said mournfully
one to another, “Our kindness was misplaced. We suffer for our own
foolishness.”

THE JACKDAW AND THE SHEEP

A JACKDAW sat chattering upon the back of a Sheep.

“Peace, I pray you, noisy bird,” said the Sheep. “You are wearing my
life out If I were a dog, you would not think of serving me so.”

“That is true,” replied the Jackdaw; “you are right. I never meddle
with the surly and revengeful; but I love to plague gentle, helpless
creatures like you, that can not do me any harm in return.”

“I wonder if all cowards are not like the Jackdaw,” mused the Sheep, as
it went on contentedly browsing on the hillside.

THE CAT AND THE COCK

A HUNGRY Cat, who had tried in vain to find a Mouse for her supper, at
last caught a young Cock.

“You are a noisy creature,” she said to him, “and have lived long
enough. You disturb every one in the house by your loud crowing in the
morning.”

“You are mistaken,” answered the Cock; “I disturb no one. I crow to
wake the family. They would not know when to get up but for me.”

“Never mind,” said the Cat; “don’t trouble yourself to make excuses; I
have had no breakfast and no dinner; I shall eat you for my supper.”

THE WOLF AND THE GOAT