A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the top of a steep precipice, where he
could not reach her.

“My dear friend,” said the Wolf, “be careful! I am afraid you will fall
and break your neck. Do come down to the meadow, where the grass is
fresh and green.”

“Are you very hungry?” said the Goat. “And is it your dinner time? And
would you like to eat me? I think I will not go down to the meadow
to-day, thank you.”

And she capered contentedly about on the edge of the rock, as safe from
falling as she was from the greedy Wolf with his false care for her.

THE HEN AND THE SWALLOW

A HEN who had no nest of her own found some eggs, and, in the kindness
of her heart, thought she would take care of them, and keep them warm.

But they were the eggs of a viper; and by and by the little snakes
began to come out of the shell.

A Swallow, who was passing, stopped to look at them.

“What a foolish creature you were, to hatch those eggs!” said the
Swallow. “Don’t you know that as soon as the little snakes grow big
enough, they will bite some one—probably _you_ first of all?”

“Then,” said the Hen, as she stood on one leg and looked at the ugly
little snakes, first with one eye and then with the other, “you think
I have done more harm than good?”

“I certainly do,” said the Swallow, as she flew away. “Good judgment is
better than thoughtless kindness.”

STONE BROTH

ONE very stormy day a Poor Man came to a rich man’s house to beg.

“Away with you!” said the servants; “do not come here troubling us.”

Then said the Man, “Only let me come in and dry my clothes at your
fire.” This, the servants thought, would not cost them anything; so
they let him come in.

The Poor Man then asked the cook to let him have a pan, so that he
could make some stone broth.

“Stone broth!” said the cook. “I should like to see how you can make
broth out of a stone”; so she gave him a pan. The Man filled it with
water from the pump, and then put into it a stone from the road. “But
you must have some salt,” said the cook.

“Do you think so?” courteously replied the stranger. She gave him the
salt, and before long she added some peas, some mint, and thyme. At
last she brought him all the scraps of meat she could find, so that the
Poor Man’s broth made him a good dinner.

“You see,” said the Man, “that if you only try long enough, and are
cheerful, making the best of what you have, you may at last get what
you want.”

THE MULE AND THE GRASSHOPPERS

A MULE, hearing some Grasshoppers chirping, was much pleased with the
sound, and wished that he could make such sweet music.