“What sort of food do you eat,” said he to the Grasshoppers, “that your
voices are so charming?”

The Grasshoppers replied, “We live upon dew.”

The Mule then decided that he too would live upon dew. And in a short
time he died of hunger, just from trying to do what he saw others
doing, without first learning their reason for it.

THE GNAT AND THE BULL

A GNAT, who had flown about until he was tired, sat down to rest on the
horn of a Bull.

After sitting there a long time, he thought he would go home. So he
made a loud buzzing noise and said to the Bull, “Would you like to have
me stay longer, or shall I go now?”

“Just as you please,” said the Bull. “I did not know when you came, and
I am sure I shall not miss you when you go away.”

“What an amount of self-importance for such a tiny creature,” thought
the sleepy Bull.

A FOX AND A CRAB

A HUNGRY Fox surprised a Crab, who had left the sea and was lying upon
the beach.

“What good luck, to find a breakfast so easily,” said the Fox, as he
pounced upon him.

“Well,” said the Crab, when he found that he was to be eaten, “this
comes of going where I have no business; I should have stayed in the
water, where I belonged.”

THE DONKEY AND THE FROGS

A DONKEY was one day walking through a pond, with a load of wood on his
back, when his foot slipped and he fell.

“Help, help!” cried the poor Donkey, as he struggled and kicked in the
water. But his load was so heavy that he could not rise, and he groaned
aloud.

The Frogs heard his groans but showed no pity. “What a foolish fellow,”
said they, “to make such a fuss about a little fall into the water.
What would you say if you had to live here always, as we do?”

THE NURSE AND THE WOLF

A WOLF, prowling about to find something for supper, heard a Child
crying in a house. Listening, he heard the Nurse say, “Stop crying this
minute, or I will throw you out of doors to the Wolf.”

The Wolf sat down near the door, thinking within himself, “I shall soon
have a good supper.”

The Baby cried and cried, till at last it went to sleep; and then the
Wolf heard the Nurse say: “There, that’s a good Baby. If the naughty
old Wolf comes for my darling, we’ll beat him, so we will.”

The Wolf trotted sadly home. On his way he met the Fox.

“What makes you look so sour and so forlorn, my friend?” said the Fox.

“Don’t speak to me!” growled the Wolf. “I have lost my supper just
because I believed what a Nurse said to a Baby.”

THE CAT AND THE MARTINS