THE Fox and the Stork were on what seemed to be friendly terms. The
Fox invited the Stork to a dinner for which nothing was provided but a
soup, which was served on a wide, shallow dish.

The Fox presided at the feast with great dignity, and, as if to set
his friend an example, proceeded to lap the soup. This _he_ could do
with the greatest ease; but the Stork, who could only dip the tip of
his bill in the dish and get the tempting odor, fared badly. He praised
the dinner, but soon took leave, saying to his friend that he should do
himself the honor to return the compliment.

This he did in a few days, but ordered that nothing be brought to the
table but some minced meat in a glass jar, the neck of which was so
narrow and deep that, though he himself could eat very well, the Fox
could not reach it, and so could only lick the brim for the bits that
clung to it.

Reynard could not conceal his vexation, but was obliged to own that he
had been rightly used.

They who practice cunning must expect to suffer by it, and he laughs
best who laughs last.

THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX

A DOG and a Cock, who were neighbors, once made a little journey
together.

When night came on, the Cock flew up into the branches of a tree to
sleep; and the Dog found a hollow in the trunk, into which he could
creep and lie down. They slept well, and as soon as the morning dawned,
the Cock, as usual, began to crow.

A Fox, hearing the sound and thinking he was sure of a good breakfast,
came and stood under the branches. “Good morning,” said he to the Cock.

“How glad I am to make the acquaintance of the owner of such a voice!
Will you not come down here where we can chat a little?”

“Thank you, I cannot just yet,” replied the Cock; “but if you would
like to come up here, go around the tree trunk, and wake my servant. He
will open the door and let you in.”

The Fox did as he was requested; but as he approached the tree, the Dog
sprang upon him, and tore him to pieces.

“Two can play at the same game,” said the Cock, as he looked down upon
the scene.

THE FLY AND THE MOTH

A FLY alighted one night upon a pot of honey, and finding it very much
to his taste, began to eat it along the edges.

Little by little, however, he had soon crept away from the edge and
into the jar, until at last he found himself stuck fast. His legs and
wings had become so smeared with the honey that he could not use them.