“By all means,” replied the hospitable Arab; and the Camel stood with
his head inside the tent.

“Might I also warm my neck a little?” he entreated after a moment.

The Arab readily consented, and the Camel’s neck was thrust within the
tent.

He stood, moving his head from side to side uneasily, and presently
said: “It is awkward standing thus. It would take but little more room
if I were to place my forelegs inside the tent.”

“You may place your forelegs within the tent,” said the Arab. And now
he had to move a little to make room, for the tent was small.

The Camel spoke again: “I keep the tent open by standing thus, and make
it cold for us both. May I not stand wholly within?”

“Yes,” said the Arab, whose compassion included his beast as well as
himself; “come in wholly if you wish.” But now the tent proved to be
too small to hold both.

“I think, after all,” said the Camel, as he crowded himself in, “that
there will not be room here for us both. You are the smaller; it will
be best for you to stand outside. There will be room then for me.” So
he pushed a little, and the Arab with all haste went outside the tent.

THE FOX WHO HAD LOST HIS TAIL

A FOX was once caught in a trap by his tail. He succeeded in getting
away, but was forced to leave his “brush” behind. He soon realized that
his life would be a burden, from the shame and ridicule to which his
tailless condition would expose him.

“I must not own that it is a misfortune not to have a bushy tail,” he
said to himself.

So he set about to induce all the other Foxes to part with theirs. At
the next assembly he boldly made a speech, in which he set forth the
advantages of his present state.

“The tail,” he said, “is no real part of our persons, and besides being
very ugly to see, it exposes us to danger from the dogs. I have never
moved about with such ease as since I gave up my own.”

When he had ended his speech, a sly old Fox arose, and giving his own
brush a graceful wave, said, with the kind of sneer which all Foxes
know so well how to give, that if he had lost by accident his own tail,
he should, without doubt, agree with his friend; but that, as the brush
was a fox’s chief ornament and distinction, until such a mishap should
occur as had befallen his friend, he should retain his own and should
advise the others to do the same. And the vote to retain the tails was
given by a wave of the brush. Yet many fashions have been set by Foxes
who have met with some such accident.

THE BOYS AND THE FROGS

SOME Boys, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs sporting in the
water.