“Let us see if we can hit them; it is great fun to make them dive,”
said one; and they all began to pelt them with stones.

At last, after several Frogs had been hit, one of them put his head up
out of the water, and said: “Pray stop, Boys. Throwing stones at us may
be great sport for you, but it is death to us. We have done you no
harm, and alas! you have already killed or wounded three of our family.”

THE SWALLOW AND THE OTHER BIRDS

A WISE Swallow, seeing a man sow seed in a field, went behind him and
picked up one of the seeds to see what it was.

She found that it was flax. “When this flax has grown,” she said to
herself, “the man will make it into linen thread and use it to make
nets for catching us Birds.”

So she went to all the Birds and told them what she had discovered,
begging them to come and help her eat up the flaxseed before it should
sprout. “This field,” she said, “is as much ours as it is his. And
while one of us can do but little, all working together can quickly
remove our danger.”

But the Birds would not listen to her. Not one of them could she

the Birds to pull the young flax before it grew large. But they all
made fun of her caution and let the flax keep growing.

When she saw how heedless all the Birds were, the Swallow would have
nothing more to do with them, but left the woods where they lived and
came among men, building her nests in barns and along the eaves of
houses.

THE FARMER AND THE SNAKE

ONE wintry day a Farmer found a Snake lying on the frozen ground, quite
stiff and nearly dead with cold.

In a fit of compassion the Farmer brought him carefully to his house,
and laid him near the fire. But as soon as the Snake began to feel the
pleasant warmth, he raised his head and tried to bite his kind friend.

“Oh!” said the Farmer, “is that the way you repay me for my trouble?
You are a venomous creature, I am sure, and the sooner you die the
better.” And he killed him with one blow of his stick.

THE RAVEN AND THE SWAN

A RAVEN saw a snowy Swan floating on the lake.

“No wonder the Swan is so white,” thought the Raven, as he looked at
his own black feathers. “I dare say _I_ should be, if I were all the
time washing myself. I believe I’ll try it.”

Then he left his home, where he always found plenty to eat, and came
and lived by the lake. He washed himself from morning till night, but
he grew no whiter; and, as he found nothing to eat, he came near dying
for want of food.

THE BIRDS, THE BEASTS, AND THE BAT