ONCE there was a beautiful Hound. He had long, silky ears and a smooth,
bright skin; and he was not only beautiful but strong and swift, and
a faithful servant. Whenever his master went hunting, the Hound went
with him and chased the deer. After many years the Hound grew old and
feeble, but still he followed his master, with the other dogs.

One day a stag had been chased till it was almost tired out, and
the old Hound came up with it and seized it; but his teeth were old
and broken and could not hold fast, so that the stag gave a sudden
bound and got away. Just then the master rode up, and seeing what had
happened, was very angry. He took his whip to strike his faithful old
Hound.

“Hold! hold! O dear Master,” said he, “do not strike me. I meant to do
well. It is not my fault that I am old. Remember what I have been, if
you do not like me as I am now.”

THE VAIN JACKDAW

JUPITER having determined, it is said, to appoint a sovereign over
the birds, proclamation was made that on a certain day the candidates
should present themselves before him, and he would choose the most
beautiful to be king.

The Jackdaw, knowing his own ugliness, yet wishing to rule over the
birds, searched through woods and fields for feathers which had fallen
from the wings of his companions, and stuck them all over his body.

When the appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled, the
Jackdaw made his appearance in his many-feathered finery, and Jupiter
proposed to make him king.

Upon seeing this, the other birds were indignant, and each plucking
from the Jackdaw his own kind of feathers, they left the proposed king
a plain Jackdaw with no claim to superior beauty.

THE DONKEY AND THE LAP DOG

THERE was once a man who had a Donkey and a little pet Dog. The Donkey
worked all day in the fields and slept in the barn at night.

But the Lap Dog frisked about and played, jumping in his master’s lap
whenever he pleased, feeding from his hand, and sleeping by his bed at
night.

The Donkey grumbled a great deal at this. “How hard I work!” said he,
“and I never get any pay but blows and hard words. Why should I not be
petted like that wretched little Dog? It may be partly my own fault.
Perhaps if I played with my master as he does, I too might be treated
like him.”

So the Donkey pushed his way into the house, and jumped up on his
master’s knee, putting his forefeet on his shoulders and giving a loud
bray.

The master, almost deafened by the noise and in danger from the great
clumsy creature, called out, “Help! help!” and the servants, running
in, drove the Donkey out of doors with sticks and stones.

THE ONE-EYED DOE