A DOE, blind in one eye, used to graze as near as she could to the edge
of a cliff, so that she might keep her blind eye to the water, while
with the other she kept watch against the approach of hunters or hounds
on the shore.

Some boatmen sailing by saw her standing thus on the edge of a cliff,
and finding that she did not perceive their approach, they came very
close, and taking aim, shot her.

Finding herself wounded, she said, “O unhappy creature that I am, to
take such care as I did against the dangers of the land, and then,
after all, to find this seashore, to which I had come for safety, so
much more perilous!”

THE CAMEL

WHEN man first beheld the Camel, he was so awed by his vast size that
he fled away from him in terror.

But after a time, perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the
animal’s temper, he summoned courage to approach him. The Camel so
readily obeyed the commands that were given him, and seemed so wanting
in spirit, that at last the man put a bridle in his mouth and set a
child to guide him.

Since then Camels are valued for the service they render.

THE WOLF AND THE HOUSE DOG

A WOLF met a Dog, and seeing that he looked fat and sleek, said to
him, “How does it happen, my friend, that you are so plump, while I,
although I run after game day and night, am half starved?”

“Why,” said the Dog, “I do not have to run after my food. I only guard
the house at night, and all the family pet me and feed me with scraps
from their own plates. Come and live with me, and you shall be as well
off as I am.”

“That I should like,” said the Wolf. “I will at least go with you and
try the life.”

As they trotted along the road together, the Wolf saw a mark on the
Dog’s neck, and asked him what it was.

“Oh, that is nothing,” said the Dog; “only a little mark made by the
fretting of my chain.”

“Do you wear a chain?” asked the Wolf; “and do you mean to say that you
are tied up?”

“Why, yes,” said the Dog; “they tie me in the daytime, but at night I
can go where I please. It is a bit annoying at first, but one soon gets
used to it.”

“Good-by,” said the Wolf; “that is enough for me. Though I may not be
fat, I will at least be free.”

THE OAK AND THE REED

ON THE bank of a river grew a tall Oak Tree. It stood with its roots
firm in the ground, and its head high in the air, and said to itself:
“How strong I am! Nothing shall make me bow. I look down upon all the
other trees.”