Not long after this the Horse was shot in the eye; and, as he was no
longer fit for the army, his fine saddle and bridle were taken off, and
he was sold to a farmer, who made him drag heavy loads.

Since he had not been trained to the work, it came hard to him, and he
complained bitterly.

The Mule, meeting him soon after, knew him and called out: “Aha! is it
you? I thought pride would have a fall some day.”

THE WIND AND THE SUN

THE North Wind and the Sun once fell into a dispute as to which was the
stronger of the two. They related their most famous exploits, and each
ended as he began, by thinking he had the greater power.

his cloak.

The boastful North Wind was the first to try, the Sun meanwhile
watching behind a gray cloud. He blew a furious blast and nearly tore
the cloak from its fastenings; but the Man only held his cloak more
closely, and old Boreas spent his strength in vain.

Mortified by his failure to do so simple a thing, the Wind withdrew at
last in despair. “I don’t believe you can do it, either,” he said.

Then out came the kindly Sun in all his splendor, dispelling the clouds
that had gathered and sending his warmest rays down upon the traveler’s
head.

The Man looked up gratefully, but, growing faint with sudden heat, he
quickly flung aside his cloak, and hastened for comfort to the nearest
shade.

Persuasion is often better than force.

THE BEAR AND THE TWO TRAVELERS

TWO men were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly crossed their
path.

One of the men climbed quickly into a tree, and tried to conceal
himself in its branches.

Seeing that he must be attacked, the other one fell flat upon the
ground; and when the Bear came up, felt him with his snout, and smelt
him all over, the man held his breath, feigning death.

The Bear soon left him, for it is said a Bear will not touch a dead
body.

When the Bear had gone, the man in the tree came down to join his
companion, and, as a pleasant joke, inquired, “What was it that the
Bear whispered in your ear when he bent over you for so long?”

His friend replied very gravely: “He gave me this bit of advice, ‘Never
travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger.’”

THE TWO GOATS

TWO Goats started at the same moment, from opposite ends, to cross a
rude bridge that was only wide enough for one to cross at a time.

Meeting at the middle of the bridge, neither would yield to the other.
They locked horns and fought for the right of way, until both fell into
the torrent below and were drowned.

THE BULL AND THE CALF

A BULL was once striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
a narrow passage which led to his stall.