“I will go through,” said a young Calf, “and show you the way. I have
done it many a time.”

“Save yourself the trouble,” said the Bull; “I knew the way before you
were born.”

THE FAWN AND HIS MOTHER

A YOUNG Fawn once said to his Mother: “I do not see, Mother, how it is
that you should be so afraid of the dogs. You are larger than a dog,
and swifter; and you are much more used to running. Why is it that the
mere mention of a hound puts you into such a terrible fright?”

The Mother smiled upon her brave young son. “I know very well,” she
said, “that all you say is true. I look at my long legs, and remember
all the advantages that you mention, yet when I hear the bark of but a
single dog, I faint with terror.”

THE MULE AND HIS SHADOW

ONE very hot day a Traveler hired a Mule with his driver to carry some
merchandise to a distant place.

The way lay across a sandy plain, and the day being intensely hot, the
Traveler called upon the driver to stop for rest. To escape from the
direct heat of the sun, which was shining in all its strength, the
Traveler proceeded to sit down in the shadow of the Mule.

But a violent dispute arose, for the shadow was sufficient for but one,
and the driver, a lusty fellow, rudely pushed the Traveler one side,
claiming the spot for himself, saying: “When you hired this Mule of me,
you said nothing about the shadow. If now you want that too, you must
pay for it.”

The discussion grew so violent that they forgot the Mule, who took
advantage of his freedom and ran away. And so, in disputing about the
shadow they lost the substance.

THE BLIND MAN AND THE LAME MAN

A BLIND Man, being stopped in a bad piece of road, met a Lame Man,
and entreated him to help him out of the difficulty into which he had
fallen.

“How can I,” replied the Lame Man, “since I can scarcely drag myself
along? I am lame, and you look very strong.”

“I am strong enough,” said the other. “I could go if I could but see
the way.”

“Oh, then we may help each other,” said the Lame Man. “If you will take
me on your shoulders, we will seek our fortunes together. I will be
eyes for you, and you shall be feet for me.”

“With all my heart,” said the Blind Man. “Let us render each other our
mutual services.” So he took his lame companion upon his back, and they
traveled on with safety and pleasure.

THE TWO POTS

A RIVER carried down, in its stream, two Pots, one made of Earthenware
and the other of Brass.