Each of the Sons in turn took the bundle and tried with all his might
to break it, but could not. When all had tried and given it up, the
Father said, “Untie the bundle, and each of you take a stick and see
if you can break that.” This they could do very easily. Then said the
Father:

“You saw when the sticks were bound together how strong they were; but
as soon as they were untied, you broke them easily. Now, if you will
stop quarreling and stand by each other, you will be like the bundle of
sticks—no one can do you any harm; but if you do not keep together, you
will be as weak as is one of the little sticks by itself, which any one
can break.”

THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG

THERE was once a Dog who used to run at every one whom he met, but so
quietly that no one suspected harm from him till he began to bite his
heels.

In order to give notice to strangers that the Dog could not be trusted,
and at the same time to punish the Dog himself, the master would
sometimes hang a bell about his neck and compel him to drag a heavy
clog, which he firmly attached to his collar by a chain.

For a time the Dog hung his head; but seeing that his bell and clog
brought him into notice, he grew proud of them, and ran about the
market place to display them and attract attention to himself. He even
went so far as to give himself airs with the other dogs, who had no
such mark of distinction.

An old Hound, seeing it, said: “Why do you make such an exhibition of
yourself, as if your bell and clog were marks of merit? They do indeed
bring you into notice; but when their meaning is understood, they are
marks of disgrace—a reminder that you are an ill-mannered cur. It is
one thing to be renowned when our virtues give occasion for it; it is
quite another to become notorious for our faults.”

THE DOG AND THE OYSTER

A DOG, seeing an Oyster, took it to be an egg and swallowed it. Soon
after, suffering great pain, he said, “It was my greedy haste that
brought me this torment.”

THE FOX AND THE LEOPARD

THE Fox and the Leopard once disputed who was the more beautiful. The
Leopard exhibited, one by one, the various spots which covered his
skin. The Fox, who was even more proud of his wits than of his person,
interrupted him at last by saying: “Yet when all is said, how much more
beautiful am I, who am decorated not simply in body but in mind. The
person should be of more value than his coat.”

THE DOGS AND THE HIDES