“I do not care what happens,” said the Fox, “for I have a thousand
tricks, any one of which would get me out of difficulty. But pray, Mrs.
Puss,” he added, “what would you do if there should be an invasion?”

“I have but one course,” Puss replied. “If that would not serve me, I
should be undone.”

“I am sorry for you,” said the Fox. “I would gladly teach you one or
two of my tricks, but it is not wise to trust another. We must each
take care for himself.”

These words were hardly spoken, when a pack of hounds came upon them in
full cry.

The Cat, by means of her one well-proved safeguard, ran up a tree and
sat serenely among the branches. “This is my way,” she said to the Fox.
“What is yours to be?”

The Fox, with all his thousand tricks, was not able to get out of
sight, and fell a prey to the dogs.

THE MONKEY AND THE CAT

A MONKEY and a Cat lived in the same family, and it was hard to tell
which was the greater thief.

One day, as they were roaming together, they spied some chestnuts
roasting in the ashes of a fire.

“Come,” said the cunning Monkey, “we shall not go dinnerless to-day.
Your claws are better than mine for the purpose; pull the chestnuts out
of the ashes and you shall have half.”

Puss pulled them out, burning her paws very much in doing so. When she
had stolen every one, she turned to the Monkey for her share of the
booty; but, to her chagrin, she could find no chestnuts, for he had
eaten them all.

THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD

FOR a long time the Wolf had followed the Sheep without attempting to
injure one of them.

The Shepherd stood on his guard against him for a while, and kept
strict watch that he did not come too near. But as day after day passed
and the Wolf showed no disposition to injure any of the flock, he
allowed him to approach nearer, till at last he came among the Sheep,
and seemed to watch over them like a dog.

“He is really quite a help to me,” said the Shepherd to himself; “and
I have never seen him make the slightest effort to seize a sheep or a
lamb.”

So, having occasion to go to town one day, he left his flock in the
care of the Wolf, whom he regarded as a guardian over them.

But no sooner was the man gone, than the Wolf, seeing his opportunity,
fell upon the Sheep and destroyed the greater part of them.

“I have been rightly served,” said the Shepherd, on his return. “Why
did I not know better than to trust my Sheep to their worst enemy? Soon
or late, nature will show itself.”

THE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE

A WOLF accused of theft a Fox, who utterly denied the charge, whereupon
an Ape undertook to adjudge the matter in question.