When each had fully stated his case, the Ape pronounced this sentence:

“I am fully satisfied that you, Wolf, never lost what you claim.” Then
turning to the Fox, he said, “And I believe you to have done that which
you so stoutly deny.”

THE BLIND MAN AND THE WHELP

A BLIND Man was accustomed to distinguish different animals by touching
them with his hands.

The whelp of a wolf was brought him, with the request that he should
feel it and tell what it was.

Being in doubt, he said, “I do not quite know whether it is the cub of
a fox or the whelp of a wolf; but this I know full well, that it would
not be safe to admit it to the sheepfold.”

THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW

A YOUNG man who had been a great spendthrift, and had run through
all the money he had inherited, and even sold all his outer clothing
except his cloak, saw a Swallow skimming over the meadows in the early
springtime and twittering gayly. Believing that summer was really come,
he sold his cloak also.

The next day there happened to be a severe frost, and, shivering
himself, he found the Swallow lying frozen and stiff upon the ground.

“Unhappy bird,” he said, “had you not come before your time, I should
not now be so wretched, and you might have escaped your fate. A single
swallow does not make a summer.”

THE BOAR AND THE FOX

A BOAR stood whetting his tusks against a tree.

“What do you mean,” asked a Fox, “by such warlike preparation? There is
no enemy in sight.”

“When the enemy is in sight,” said the Boar, “it is time to think of
something else.”

HERCULES AND THE WAGONER

AS A WAGONER drove his wagon through a miry lane, the wheels stuck fast
in the clay, so that the horses could proceed no further.

The Man, without making the least effort to remedy the matter, fell
upon his knees and began to call upon Hercules to come and help him
out of his trouble.

“Lazy fellow,” said Hercules, “lay your own shoulder to the wheel. Stir
yourself and do what you can. Then, if you want aid from the gods,
you shall have it. Remember the proverb, Heaven helps those who help
themselves.”

THE MULES AND THE ROBBERS

TWO Mules, laden with packs, were trudging along the highway. One
carried panniers filled with money, the other sacks of grain.

The Mule that carried the treasure walked with head erect and stately
step, jingling the bells about his neck as he went.

His companion followed at a quiet, easy pace.

Suddenly a band of Robbers sprang upon them, attracted by the strong,
proud step and the jingling bells. The Mule that carried the gold made
so great an ado that the Robbers seized his pack, wounding him with
their weapons, and, hearing footsteps, fled.