“I am glad,” said the other, “that I was thought of so little
consequence, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with any wound.”

THE SWALLOW AND THE CROW

THE Swallow and the Crow were once contending about their plumage.
The Crow finally put an end to the dispute by saying, “Your feathers
are well enough now while it is warm, but mine protect me against the
winter.”

JUPITER AND THE BEE

A BEE made Jupiter a present of a pot of honey, which was so kindly
taken that he bade her ask what she would in exchange.

The Bee, who was nursing a private spite for the loss of some of her
winter’s store, desired of Jupiter that wherever she should set her
sting it might be mortal.

Jupiter was loath to leave mankind at the mercy of a little spiteful
insect, and was annoyed at the ill nature shown in her wish. He said,
therefore, that while, for his promise’s sake, he would give her the
power to harm, she must be careful how she used the power, for where
she planted her sting, she would leave it, and would thereby risk her
own life.

Ill will often does greater harm to the one who acts from it than to
the one on whom it falls.

THE TWO TRAVELERS

AS TWO men were traveling through a wood, one of them took up an
ax which he saw lying upon the ground. “Look here,” said he to his
companion; “I have found an ax.”

“Don’t say _I_ have found it,” said the other, “but _we_. As we are
companions, we ought to share it between us.”

“No,” said the first, “I found the ax. It is mine.”

They had not gone far when they heard the owner of the ax pursuing
them, and calling out to them in great passion.

“We are in for it now,” said he who had the ax.

“Nay,” said the other; “say _I_ am in for it, not _we_. When you
thought you had a prize, you would not let me share it with you, and
now you cannot expect me to share in the danger.”

THE KID AND THE WOLF

A KID, mounted on a high rock where she felt safe, bestowed all manner
of abuse upon a Wolf on the ground below.

The Wolf replied: “Do not think, silly little creature, that you can
annoy me. This ill language that you are using I regard as coming, not
from you, but from the safe place on which you stand. You would be in a
different mood if you were down here by my side.”

THE GOURD AND THE PINE

A GOURD was once planted close beside a large and noble Pine Tree.
The season was kindly, and the Gourd shot itself up in a short time,
climbing by the boughs and twining about them, till it covered and
overtopped the Tree itself.