The leaves were so large and the flowers and fruit so fair that the
Gourd, comparing them with the slender needles of the Pine, had the
assurance to think itself of greater value in the comparison.

“Why,” said the Gourd, “you have been more years in growing to this
stature than I have been days.”

“That is true,” said the Pine; “but after the many winters and summers
that I have endured, the many blasting colds and parching heats, you
see me the very same that I was long years ago. Nothing has overcome
me. But when your race is put to the proof, the first blight or frost
is sure to bring down that pride of yours. In an hour you are stripped
of all your glory.”

THE HARE AND THE HOUND

A HOUND, having started a Hare which proved to be a capital runner, at
length gave up the chase. His master, seeing it, said, “The little one
is the best runner, eh?”

“Ah, Master,” answered the Dog, “it’s all very well to laugh; but you
do not see the difference between us. He was running for his life,
while I was only running for my dinner.”

THE OWL AND THE GRASSHOPPER

AN Owl, who was sitting in a hollow tree, dozing away a long summer
afternoon, was much disturbed by a rogue of a Grasshopper, singing in
the grass below.

So far from moving away at the request of the Owl, or keeping quiet,
the Grasshopper sang all the more, saying that honest people got their
sleep at night.

The Owl waited in silence for a while, and then artfully addressed the
Grasshopper thus: “I suppose I ought to be angry with you, my dear,
for I confess I would rather sleep than listen to your singing. But if
one cannot be allowed to sleep, it is something to be kept awake by
such a pleasant little pipe as yours. And now it occurs to me that I
have some delicious nectar with which to reward a musician who sings
so sweetly. If you will take the trouble to come up, you shall have a
drop. It will clear your voice nicely.”

The silly Grasshopper came hopping up to the Owl, who at once caught
and killed him, and so finished her nap in comfort.

THE MULE EATING THISTLES

A MULE, laden with choice provision of several sorts, was on his way
to the field. His master and the reapers were at work there, and the
provision that he carried was for the refreshment of both man and beast.