Seeing a large, strong thistle by the roadside, he stopped to eat it.
“Many people would wonder,” thought he, “that, with such dainty food
upon my back, I should have appetite for the despised thistle; but to
me the bitter, prickly weed has a more savory relish than anything
else in the world. Let others choose what they will, but give me a
fine, juicy thistle like this, and I shall be content. Every one to his
taste. It is wisely ordered that what one rejects should be the choice
of another. A wise man has said that a weed is a plant that people have
not yet found a use for.”

THE SICK STAG

A STAG, whose joints had become stiff with age, was at great pains
to gather an abundant supply of food—enough, as he thought, for the
remainder of his days.

He stretched himself beside it, in a quiet, sunny corner of his
pasture, and now dozing, now nibbling, was passing a happy old age.

He had been a favorite among his companions, and they now came often,
and in great numbers, to call upon him and wish him good luck. He made
them welcome in a hospitable manner, and each, as often as he came,
helped himself to a little of the food so abundantly provided.

The end of the matter was, that the poor Stag died, not so much from
either sickness or old age as from want of the food which his friends
had eaten for him. Before doing a thing, it is well sometimes to
consider, “What if every one should do it?”

THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERDS

A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut, eating for their
dinner a haunch of mutton. Approaching them, he said: “Ah! gentlemen,
you are feasting on mutton. I like your taste. But what a hue and cry
you would raise if _I_ were to do it.”

THE BOY AND THE NETTLE

A BOY was once stung by a Nettle. Crying with pain, he ran home and
told his mother, saying, “Although it pains me so much, I did but touch
it ever so gently, for I had been hurt by it before.”

“That was just it,” said his mother. “It was that which gave you so
bad a sting. The next time you have occasion to touch a Nettle, grasp
it boldly, with courage and resolution. It will be as soft as silk in
your hand and will not hurt you in the least. And you will meet many
persons, as well as things, that must be handled in the same way, if
you would escape discomfort from them.”

THE HARES AND THE FOXES

THE Hares waged war with the Eagles and called upon the Foxes to help
them.

The Foxes replied: “We would willingly have helped you, if we had not
known so well who you were and with whom you were fighting. Before we
can commit ourselves, we must count the cost.”

MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN