A WOODMAN, felling a tree by the side of a river, let his ax drop by
accident into the stream.

Being thus suddenly deprived of the tool by means of which he gained
his livelihood, he sat down upon the bank and lamented his hard fate.

To his surprise Mercury appeared and asked him what was the matter.
Having heard the story of the man’s misfortune, he dived to the bottom
of the river, and bringing up a golden ax, inquired if that was the one
he had lost.

On his saying that it was not his, Mercury dived a second time, and
returning with a silver ax in his hand, again demanded of the Woodman
if it was his.

This also the Woodman refused, saying that it was none of his. Mercury
disappeared a third time and brought up the ax that the man had lost.
This the poor man took with joy and thankfulness.

So pleased was Mercury with the honesty of the man, that he gave him
the other two axes in addition to his own.

The Woodman, on his return home, related to his companions all that had
happened. One of them resolved to see if he could secure the same good
fortune to himself.

He ran to the river and threw his ax in, then sat down upon the bank to
lament his sad fate.

Mercury appeared as before and demanded to know the cause of his grief.
After hearing the man’s account, he dived and brought up a golden ax
and asked the man if that was his.

Transported at the sight of the precious metal, the fellow eagerly
answered that it was, and greedily attempted to snatch it. The god,
detecting his falsehood and greed, not only declined to give him the
golden ax but refused to recover for him his own.

THE RAT AND THE ELEPHANT

A RAT, traveling on the highway, met a huge Elephant, bearing his royal
master and the master’s favorite dog, cat, parrot, and monkey. Behind
them came a retinue of servants and many courtiers.

An admiring crowd followed the great beast and his attendants, so that
the entire road was filled.

“How foolish you are,” said the Rat to the people, “to make such a fuss
at seeing an elephant. Is it his great bulk that you so much admire?
Mere size is nothing. At most it can only frighten little girls and
boys, and I can do that as well. I am a beast as well as he. I have as
many legs, and ears, and eyes. If you will take the trouble to compare
us, you will see that I have finer parts. What right, then, has he to
take up all the highway, which belongs to me as well as to him?”

At this moment, the Cat from her high place spied the Rat. She jumped
to the ground and soon convinced him that he was not an Elephant.

THE HUSBANDMAN AND THE STORK