A HUSBANDMAN pitched a net in his fields, to take the cranes and wild
geese that came daily to feed upon the newly sown corn.

In this net he captured several cranes and geese, and among them, on
one occasion, was a Stork. The cranes and geese accepted their lot as
one of the chances to which such lives as theirs were subject; but the
Stork was in very sad case and pleaded hard for his life.

Among other reasons why he should not be put to death, the Stork urged
that he was neither goose nor crane but a poor, harmless Stork, who
performed his duty to his parents as well as ever he could, feeding
them when they were old, and carrying them, when required, from place
to place upon his back.

“All this may be true,” replied the Husbandman; “but, as I have taken
you in bad company, and in the same crime, you must expect to suffer
the same punishment.”

THE SATYR AND THE TRAVELER

A SATYR, ranging in the forest in winter, once came across a Traveler
who was half starved and nearly frozen.

He took pity upon him and invited him to come to his cave for food and
shelter.

On their way, the Man kept blowing upon his fingers. “Why do you do
that?” said the Satyr, who had seen but little of the world of men.

“To warm my hands,” replied the Man; “they are nearly frozen.”

Arriving at the cave, the Satyr poured out a smoking mess of pottage
and set it before the Traveler, who eagerly seized it and began to blow
upon it with all his might.

“What, blowing again!” exclaimed the Satyr. “Is it not hot enough?”

“It is, indeed,” answered the Man; “that is the very reason why I am
blowing it. I want to cool it enough to be able to eat it.”

Upon this the Satyr exclaimed in alarm, “Be off with you! I will have
no part with a Man who can blow hot and cold from the same mouth.”

THE STAG AT THE LAKE

A STAG, one hot day, came to drink from a clear lake, and stopped to
look at his own image in the water.

“How beautiful are my fine spreading horns!” said he. “How strong and
graceful they are, branching from each side of my head! What a pity it
is that my legs should be so thin and ugly!”

Just at this moment a lion came crashing through the forest and made
ready to spring upon him. Away went the stag! and the legs that he had
despised would soon have carried him out of danger; but when he came to
the thick woods, his beautiful antlers, of which he had been so vain,
caught in the branches and held him fast until the lion came up and
seized him.

THE PEASANT AND THE APPLE TREE