A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple Tree which for year after year
had borne no fruit, but served only as a harbor for sparrows and
grasshoppers.

Seeing no good to himself in the tree, he resolved to cut it down, and,
taking his ax in his hand, he made a bold stroke at its roots.

Each in his own way, the grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not
to cut down the tree that sheltered them. “We will do our best to make
up to you the worth of the wood, if you will spare it,” they said,
“lightening your labor by our cheering songs.” But he paid no heed to
them and gave a second and a third blow with his ax.

When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.
He tasted the honeycomb and at once threw down his ax. From that time
the greatest of care was taken of the tree, and the sparrows and
grasshoppers still found shelter in it. They could not forget, however,
that the man had only saved their home for them from self-interest.

JUPITER, NEPTUNE, MINERVA, AND MOMUS

ACCORDING to an old legend, the first man was made by Jupiter, the
first bull by Neptune, and the first house by Minerva.

On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as to which had made
the most perfect work.

They agreed to rest the decision with Momus, a judge, and to abide by
his word.

Momus, however, being very envious of the handicraft of each, found
fault in turn with all.

He criticized the work of Neptune because he had not made the horns
of the bull below the eyes, that the animal might better see where to
strike.

He condemned the work of Jupiter because he had not placed the heart of
man on the outside, so that every one might read the thoughts of the
evil-disposed and take precautions against intended mischief.

And last of all, he inveighed against Minerva, not because of any fault
in the house itself but because she had not contrived iron wheels in
its foundation, so that its inhabitants might more easily remove if a
neighbor proved unpleasant.

Indignant at such inveterate fault-finding, Jupiter drove Momus from
his office as judge and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.

THE FARTHING RUSHLIGHT

A RUSHLIGHT, in love with its own brilliancy, once boasted that its
light was brighter even than that of the sun, the moon, and the stars.

Just then a door opened, and a puff of wind blew it out.

As the owner relighted it, he said: “Cease now your boasting. Be
content to shine in silence. Heavenly lights do not blow out. Know that
not even the stars need to be relit.”

THE HORSE AND THE GROOM