A GROOM, who used to steal a Horse’s corn and sell it, was yet very
busy all the day long in grooming and wisping him. “If you really wish
me,” said the Horse, “to look sleek and fine, give me less currying and
more corn.”

THE TRUMPETER TAKEN PRISONER

A TRUMPETER who had been taken prisoner in a battle begged hard for
his life. “Spare me, I entreat you,” said he; “put me not to death
without cause. I have killed no one, nor do I carry arms, but only this
trumpet.”

“For that very reason,” said they who held him captive, “you shall the
more surely die; for though without the spirit to fight yourself, you
stir up others to violence and bloodshed.”

He who incites to strife is worse than he who takes part in it.

THE BOASTING TRAVELER

A MAN who had traveled in foreign parts bragged, on his return home,
of the great feats he had performed in different places. In Rhodes,
for instance, he had taken so extraordinary a leap that no man could
approach it; and, he said, he had witnesses there to prove that it was
so.

“It is quite possible,” said one who heard him boasting of it, “but
just suppose this to be Rhodes, and try the leap again.”

THE HEDGE AND THE VINEYARD

A FOOLISH young Heir, who had come into possession of his wise father’s
estate, broke up all the Hedges about his Vineyard because they bore
no grapes. The throwing down of these fences laid his grounds open
to man and beast, and his vines were presently destroyed. The simple
fellow learned, when it was too late, that it was quite as necessary to
protect his Vineyard as to possess it.

THE MOUSE AND THE WEASEL

A LITTLE starveling Mouse had made his way with some difficulty into a
basket of corn, where, finding the entertainment much to his liking, he
stuffed and crammed himself to such an extent that when he was ready
to get out again, he found the hole by which he had entered too small
to allow his puffed-out body to pass through. A Weasel, who was drawn
to the spot by his cries, thus counseled him: “Stay where you are, my
friend, and fast till you are thin; for you will never come out till
you reduce yourself to the same condition as when you went in.”

THE WOLF AND THE SHEEP

A WOLF, that had been bitten by a dog and was unable to move, begged a
Sheep that passed by to take pity on his sad case and fetch him some
water from a stream. “If you will bring me a drink,” said he, “I will
find meat myself.”

“Yes,” said the Sheep, “I make no doubt of it; for if I come near
enough to give you the drink, you will make mincemeat of _me_.”

A WIDOW AND HER SHEEP