A CERTAIN widow, who had only a single Sheep and wished to make the
most of his wool, sheared him so closely as to cut his skin as well
as his fleece. The Sheep, smarting under this treatment, cried out:
“Why do you torture me thus? It is no gain to yourself. My blood will
not add to the weight of the wool. If you are after flesh send for
the Butcher, who will end my misery; but if it is only wool that you
want, send for the Shearer, who will clip my fleece without drawing my
blood.”

THE MAN AND THE LION

A MAN and a Lion were once journeying together and came at length to
high words as to which was the braver and stronger creature of the two.
As the dispute waxed warmer they happened to pass, on the roadside, the
statue of a man strangling a lion. “See there,” said the Man. “What
more proof can you have of our undeniable superiority than that?”

“That,” said the Lion, “is a man’s version of the story; let us be the
sculptors, and for one lion under the feet of a man, you shall have
twenty men under the paws of lions.”

THE LIONESS

A GREAT stir was once made as to which of the Beasts could boast of the
largest family. They came in turn to the Lioness. “And how many,” was
asked, “do you have at a birth?”

“One,” she replied; “but that one is a Lion!”

Quality is before quantity.

THE BOY WHO STOLE APPLES

AN Old Man once found a rude Boy in his Apple Tree and sternly ordered
him to come down. The young rogue answered that he would not.

“Then I will fetch you down,” said the Old Man. So he threw twigs and
bundles of grass up at him, but this only made the young scapegrace
laugh.

“Very well,” said the Old Man. “If neither words nor grass will bring
you down, I will try what virtue there is in stones.” With that he
pelted the Boy heartily with stones, which soon brought him down from
the tree to beg the Old Man’s pardon.

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS

A CERTAIN man had the good fortune to possess a Goose which laid him a
Golden Egg each day of the year. For a while the man rejoiced in his
daily gain, but becoming impatient with so slow an income, he killed
the Goose, to get all at once the gold which he thought was inside
her. When he had laid her open, he found that she was exactly like all
other geese.

Wanting more, he lost all.

THE OLD MAN AND DEATH

AN Old Laborer, bent with age and toil, was gathering brush in a
forest. Growing tired and hopeless, he threw down his bundle and cried
out: “I can bear this no longer! If only Death would come and relieve
me!”