As he spoke Death came and asked him what it was that he wanted. “Pray,
good sir,” replied the Man, “do me but the favor to lift this bundle of
sticks to my back.”

A FATHER AND HIS TWO DAUGHTERS

A MAN who had two Daughters married one to a Gardener, the other to a
Potter. Going to visit at the Gardener’s, he asked his Daughter how it
fared with her. “Excellently well,” said she; “we have all that we want
if only we may have a heavy rain to water our plants.”

Going on to the Potter’s, he asked his other Daughter how matters went
with her. “There is nothing that we want but that this fine weather and
hot sun may continue, so that our tiles will bake well.”

“Alas,” said the Father, “if you wish for fine weather, and your sister
for rain, which shall I myself pray for?”

THE SICK LION AND THE FOX

A LION who was too old and feeble to hunt for prey saw that he must
get it, if at all, by cunning. He crept into a corner of his den and
feigned sickness. All the animals that came by went in to take a look
at him, and, as they came, he sprang upon them and ate them up. Now,
when this had happened to a good many, the Fox, who had guessed the
trick, came by. From a safe distance he called to the Lion, asking how
he did. The Lion said he was very sick and asked the Fox to come in and
see him. “So I would, gladly,” replied the Fox, “but I notice that all
the footprints point into the den, and there are none pointing out.”

THE MOUNTAIN IN LABOR

IN DAYS of old, a mighty rumbling was heard in a Mountain. It was said
to be in Labor, and multitudes of people flocked together, from near
and from far, to see what the great Mountain would produce. After long
expectation and wise conjecturing from the bystanders, out popped—a
mouse.

A magnificent promise, but a paltry performance.

JUPITER AND THE CAMEL

THE Camel, in days of yore, besought Jupiter to grant him horns,
because it was a great grief to him to see other animals furnished with
what he had not. Jupiter not only refused him horns but cropped his

THE MOON AND HER MOTHER

THE Moon once asked her Mother to make her a little coat that would
fit her well. “How,” replied the Mother, “can I make a cloak to fit
you, when now you are a New Moon, and then a Full Moon, and then again
neither the one nor the other?”

THE HORSE AND THE STAG