A HORSE once had the whole range of a meadow to himself; but when a
Stag came and threatened to damage the pasture, the Horse asked a Man
to assist him in ridding him of the Stag. “I will,” said the Man, “if
you will let me put a bit in your mouth and get upon your back so as
to go and find weapons.” The Horse consented, and the Man accordingly
mounted. But instead of being revenged on the Stag, the Horse has been
from that time the slave of Man.

Revenge is dearly punished at the price of liberty.

THE COUNCIL HELD BY THE RATS

Old Rodiland, a certain Cat,
    Such havoc of the Rats had made
    ’Twas difficult to find a Rat
    With nature’s debt unpaid.
    The few that did remain,
    To leave their holes afraid,
    From usual food abstain,
    Not eating half their fill.
    And wonder no one will
    That one who made on Rats his revel,
    With Rats passed not for Cat, but devil.

Now, on a day, this dread rat-eater,
    Who had a wife, went out to meet her.
    And while he held his caterwauling,
    The unkilled Rats, their chapter calling,
    Discussed the point, in grave debate,
    How they might shun impending fate.
    Their dean, a prudent Rat,
    Thought best, and better soon than late,
    To bell the fatal Cat;
    That, when he took his hunting round,
    The Rats, well cautioned by the sound,
    Might hide in safety under ground.
    Indeed, he knew no other means;
        And all the rest
        At once confessed
    Their minds were with the dean’s.
    No better plan, they all believed,
    Could possibly have been conceived.
    No doubt the thing would work right well
    If any one would hang the bell.
    But one by one said every Rat,
    “I’m not so big a fool as that.”
    The plan knocked up in this respect,
    The council closed without effect.
    And many a council I have seen,
    Or reverend chapter, with its dean,
    That, thus resolving wisely,
    Fell through like this, precisely.

To argue or refute,
              Wise councilors abound.
            The man to execute
              Is harder to be found.

THE RAIN CLOUD

A GREAT Cloud passed rapidly over a country which was parched by heat,
but did not let fall a single drop to refresh it. Presently it poured
copious streams of rain into the sea and, when it had done so, began to
boast of its generosity in the hearing of the neighboring Mountain.

But the Mountain replied: “What good have you done by such generosity?
and how can any one help being pained at the sight of it? If you
had poured your showers over the land, you might have saved a whole
district from famine. But as to the sea, my friend, it has plenty of
water already, without additions from you.”

THE ELEPHANT IN FAVOR