ONCE upon a time the Elephant stood high in the good graces of the
Lion. The forest immediately began to talk of the matter, and, as
usual, many guesses were made as to the means by which the Elephant had
gained such favor.

“It is no beauty,” say the beasts to each other, “and it is not
amusing; and what habits it has! what manners!”

“If it had possessed such a bushy tail as mine, I should not have
wondered,” says the Fox.

“Or, sister,” says the Bear, “if it had gotten into favor on account of
its claws, no one would have found the matter at all extraordinary; but
it has no claws at all, as we all know well.”

“Isn’t it its tusks that have gotten it into favor?” thus the Ox broke
in upon their conversation. “Haven’t they, perhaps, been mistaken for
horns?”

Then said the Ass, shaking its ears, “Is it possible that you don’t
know how it has succeeded in making itself liked, and in becoming
distinguished. Why, I have guessed the reason. If it hadn’t been
remarkable for its long ears, it would never in the world have gotten
into favor.”

THE CUCKOO AND THE EAGLE

THE Eagle promoted the Cuckoo to the rank of a Nightingale, and at
once, proud of its new position, the Cuckoo seated itself upon an aspen
and began to exercise its musical talents.

After a time it looked around. All the other birds were flying away,
some laughing and others abusing it. The Cuckoo grew angry, and
hastened to the Eagle with a complaint against the birds.

“Have pity on me!” it begged. “I have been appointed Nightingale to
these woods, and yet the birds dare laugh at my singing.”

“My friend,” answered the Eagle, “I am a king, but I am not a god. It
is impossible for me to remedy the cause of your complaint. I can order
a Cuckoo to be styled a Nightingale, but to make a Nightingale out of a
Cuckoo—that I cannot do.”

THE FOX IN THE ICE

VERY early one winter morning, during a hard frost, a Fox was drinking
at a hole in the ice not far from the haunts of men.

Meanwhile, whether by accident or from negligence does not matter, the
end of its tail got wet and froze to the ice.

No great harm was done; the Fox could easily remedy it. It had only to
give a tolerably hard pull and leave about a score of hairs behind;
then it could run home quickly before any one came.

But how could it make up its mind to spoil its tail? Such a bushy tail
as it was—so ample, so golden! No; better wait a little. Surely men are
sleeping still. It is even possible that a thaw may set in meanwhile.
In that case it will be able to withdraw its tail easily from the ice
hole.