So it waits; it goes on waiting, but its tail only freezes all the
more. The Fox looks round; the day is already beginning to dawn.
People are stirring; voices are to be heard. Our poor Fox begins to
move wildly about, now this way and now that. But still it cannot free
itself from the hole.

Luckily, a Wolf comes running that way.

“Dear friend! father!” cries the Fox; “do save me; I am all but lost!”

So the Wolf stopped and set to work to rescue the Fox. Its method was a
simple one—it bit the tail clean off.

So our foolish friend went home tailless, but rejoicing that its skin
was still on its back.

THE INQUISITIVE MAN

“GOOD day, dear friend; where do you come from?”

“From the Museum, where I have spent three hours. I saw everything they
have there, and examined it carefully. So much have I seen to astonish
me that, if you will believe me, I am neither strong nor clever enough
to give you the description of it. Upon my word, it is a palace of
wonders.

“How rich is Nature in inventions! What birds and beasts have I
not seen there! What flies, butterflies, cockroaches, and curious
beetles—some like emeralds, others like corals! And what tiny cochineal
insects! Why, really, some of them are smaller than a pin’s head.”

“But did you see the elephant? What did you think of it? I’ll be bound
you felt as if you were at a mountain.”

“The elephant? Are you quite sure it is there?”

“Quite sure.”

“Well, brother, you mustn’t be too hard on me; but to tell the truth, I
didn’t remark the elephant.”

THE SQUIRREL IN SERVICE

A SQUIRREL once served a Lion—I know not where or in what capacity. But
this much is certain—the Squirrel found favor in the Lion’s eyes, and
to satisfy the Lion is certainly no light affair.

In return for this he was promised a whole wagonload of nuts.

Promised—yes; but meanwhile time continues to fly by. The Squirrel
often suffers hunger and, while grinning in his masters presence, has
eyes full of tears.

When he looks around in the forest, his former comrades show themselves
here and there, high up among the trees. He looks at them till his eyes
begin to blink, but they keep on cracking nuts.

The Squirrel takes a look at them—he can do no more. At one time he is
called away; at another, even dragged off in the Lion’s service.

But see! At last the Squirrel has grown old and become tiresome to the
Lion. It is time for him to retire. They have granted the Squirrel
his discharge, and they have actually given him the full load of
nuts—excellent nuts, such as the world has never seen before; all
picked fruit, one as good as another, a perfect marvel. Only one thing
is unlucky—the Squirrel has long ago lost all his teeth.

THE WOLF AND THE CAT