NOTE. Since the purpose of the fable is not merely to entertain but
especially to point some general truth or to draw a helpful lesson,
no two versions of the same fable are exactly alike. In editions of
Æsop intended for young children, it has been the custom to elaborate
the slender story in such a way as to arouse thoroughly the child’s
interest before the moral is drawn. Hence the modern popular versions
often contain conversations and descriptive details not to be found
in the accounts which are truest to the Greek versions. This popular
elaborated form of the fable, however, needs no apology so long as
the editor is true to the spirit of the original. In the preceding
fables, the spirit, if not the letter of the most trustworthy account
available, has been carefully adhered to, but the editor has had always
in mind the youthful readers and has neglected no opportunity to make
the text fit their limited experience and understanding. But to both
teacher and pupil the current short forms of some of the longer fables
will have interest. In this Appendix, therefore, have been collected
the short forms of the first fables which appear in the text. Much
pleasure and profit can be had from a comparison of the two renderings,
and such a comparison will open the way to a discussion of the
difficulties in handing down literature orally and in preserving it in
correct form.

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

A WOLF and a Lamb came to a running brook to quench their thirst. The
Wolf stood high up the stream and the Lamb a little distance below.
Having made up his mind to seize the Lamb, the Wolf bethought himself
how he might justify his act of violence. Running down to her, he
roared, “How dare you muddle the water so that I cannot drink it?”

The Lamb, affrighted by the charge, humbly replied that she could not
see how that could be, since the water ran down from him to her and not
from her to him. “Be that as it may,” retorted the Wolf. “You are a
rascal, all the same, and I have heard that you said bad things of me
last year behind my back.”

“Nay,” said the Lamb, “that could not have been, for a year ago I was
not born.”

“Well, if it was not you it was your father, and that is all the same,”
replied the Wolf, and he fell upon the Lamb and tore her to pieces.

THE FOX AND THE LION

THE first time the Fox saw the Lion, he was ready to die of fear. The
second time he took courage and could even bear to look upon him. The
third time he had the impudence to come up to him, to salute him, and
to enter into familiar conversation with him.

THE DOG AND HIS SHADOW