A DOG had stolen a piece of meat out of a butcher’s shop and was
crossing a river on his way home, when he saw his own shadow reflected
in the stream below. Thinking it was another dog with another piece of
meat, he resolved to secure it. He snapped at his supposed treasure,
but in doing so dropped the piece he was carrying and so lost all.

THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER

SAID an old Crab to a young one, “Why do you walk so crooked, child?
Walk straight!” “Mother,” said the young Crab, “show me the way, will
you? When I see you taking a straight course, I will try and follow.”

Example is better than precept.

THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

A FOX came at vintage time to a place where ripe grapes were hanging
in tempting clusters over the branch of a tree. “I will get them,”
said the Fox. He made many a spring and jump, but failing each time to
secure the prize, he at length walked away, muttering, “Well, what does
it matter? The grapes are sour.”

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE

A WOLF had a bone in his throat and ran up and down in the greatest
agony, begging every animal he met to relieve him, hinting at the
drew forth the bone. When she had done it, she modestly asked for the
promised reward. To which the Wolf, grinning and showing his teeth,
replied, “Ungrateful creature, is it not enough that you have had your
head in a Wolf’s mouth and brought it out safe?”

THE ANTS AND THE GRASSHOPPERS

A COLONY of Ants were busily employed in the care and preservation of
their food, which they exposed to the air in heaps around their country
habitation.

A Grasshopper, who had chanced to out-live the summer and was ready to
die from cold and hunger, approached with great humility and begged
that they would relieve his necessity with one grain of wheat or rye.
One of the Ants asked him how he had disposed of his time in the
summer, that he had not taken pains and laid in a stock as they had
done.

“Alas! gentlemen,” said he, “I passed away the time merrily and
pleasantly in drinking, singing, and dancing, and never once thought of
winter.”

“If that be the case,” replied the Ant, “all I have to say is that they
who drink, sing, and dance in summer must starve in winter.”

THE FROGS WHO ASKED FOR A KING

THE commonwealth of Frogs, a discontented race, weary of liberty and
fond of change, petitioned Jupiter to grant them a King.