The good-natured deity, in order to grant their request with as little
mischief to them as possible, threw them down a Log. The splash sent
them into the greatest terror and amazement, and at first they regarded
their new monarch with great reverence and kept at a respectful
distance. But by degrees, perceiving his amiable and peaceable
disposition, they gradually ventured to approach him with more
familiarity, till at length they conceived for him the utmost contempt.

Dissatisfied with this state of things, they renewed their request to
Jupiter and entreated him to bestow upon them another King.

In his wrath the Thunderer sent them a Crane, who no sooner took
possession of his new dominion than he began to devour his subjects,
one after another.

They were now far more dissatisfied than before. Applying to Jupiter
a third time, they were dismissed with the reproof that the evil of
which they complained they had imprudently brought upon themselves; and
that now they had no other remedy but to submit to it with patience.

THE DONKEY IN THE LION’S SKIN

A DONKEY, having put on the skin of a Lion, which he found drying by
the roadside, roamed about the forest and amused himself by frightening
all the animals that he met. At length, meeting a Fox, he tried to
frighten him also; but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voice
than he exclaimed, “I might possibly have been frightened if I had not
heard you bray.”

THE MICE IN COUNCIL

THE Mice, being sadly distressed on account of their common enemy the
Cat, called a council to devise means of ridding themselves of the
annoyance. Many plans were proposed and rejected, till at last it was
suggested by a young Mouse that a bell should be hung round the Cat’s
neck, that having notice of her coming, they might escape to their
holes.

The proposal was hailed with applause and agreed to unanimously.
Whereupon an old Mouse, who had sat in silence, got up and said, “That
is well, but who will bell the Cat?” The Mice looked one at another,
but no one answered.

The old Mouse said, “It is easy to advise; what is wanted is some one
to act.”

THE KID AND THE WOLF

A KID, coming alone from its pasture, was pursued by a Wolf. With great
presence of mind the kid turned and said: “I know, Friend Wolf, that
you mean to kill me; but as my life is to be short, let it be a merry
one. Do you pipe and let me have one more dance before I die.” While
the Wolf was piping and the Kid was dancing, some Dogs, hearing the
music, ran to the place to see what was going on; and the Wolf was glad
to take himself off as fast as his legs would carry him.

THE HAWK AND THE NIGHTINGALE