THE Nightingale, sitting aloft upon an oak, was seen by a Hawk, who
swooped down and seized her. The Nightingale earnestly prayed the Hawk
to let her go, saying that she was not big enough to satisfy the hunger
of a Hawk, who ought to find plenty of larger birds. “Do you happen
to see many large birds flying about?” the Hawk asked. “I should be
foolish, indeed, to let you go for the sake of larger birds that are
not in sight. A morsel is better than nothing.”

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

A CROW who was nearly perishing with thirst spied a pitcher with a
little water in it. Reaching down, he found the water so low that,
stooping and straining as he might, he was unable to reach it with his
beak. Thereupon he tried to overturn and break the Pitcher. This he was
not strong enough to do. At last, seeing some small pebbles, he brought
a great many and dropped them one by one, and so raised the water to
the brim and quenched his thirst.

THE ANT AND THE DOVE

GOING to a fountain to quench his thirst, an Ant tumbled in and was
ready to drown. But a Dove happened to be perching on a neighboring
tree and saw the Ant’s danger. Plucking a leaf, the Dove dropped
it down into the water, so that the Ant mounting upon it was blown
safely to the shore. A Fowler, shortly after, spread his net to entrap
the unwary Dove. This the Ant perceived, and bit the Fowler’s heel.
Distracted by the pain, the Fowler dropped his net with a quick start,
and the Dove, aroused to a sense of danger, flew away.

One good turn deserves another.

THE OX AND THE FROG

AN Ox, grazing in a swampy meadow, chanced to set his foot among a
number of young Frogs and trampled nearly all of them to death. One
that escaped ran off to his mother with the dreadful news. “It was a
beast—such a big four-footed beast—that did it.”

“Big?” asked the old Frog, and she puffed herself out, “as big as this?”

“A great deal bigger,” said the little one.

“Well, was it so big?” and she swelled herself out yet more.

“Indeed, Mother, but it was; and if you were to burst yourself you
would never reach half its size.” Vexed that her child should disparage
her powers, the Mother Frog made one more trial and burst herself
indeed.

THE BAT AND THE WEASELS

A BAT, falling to the ground, was caught by a Weasel, whom he entreated
not to take his life. The Weasel protested that it was against nature
for a weasel to let a bird go. Whereupon the Bat insisted that he was
not a bird, and to prove it, called attention to his mouselike head and
ears, which so confused the Weasel that he let the Bat go.