A SHEPHERD boy, tending his flock on the edge of a village, used to
amuse himself at times by crying out, “Wolf! Wolf!” Twice or thrice his
trick succeeded. The whole village ran to his assistance, only to be
laughed at for their pains. At last, one day, the Wolf came indeed. The
Boy cried out as before, and this time in earnest. But the villagers,
supposing him to be at his old sport, paid no heed to his cries, and
the Wolf devoured the sheep.

THE FISHERMAN AND THE LITTLE FISH

AFTER toiling all day and catching nothing, a Fisherman pulled up a
little Fish. The Fish besought him to let him go, for he was small now,
but by and by he would grow to be a big fish and so be worth catching.
But the Fisherman answered, “No, no, I have you now, it would be
foolish for me to let you go; I might not get you when you had grown
bigger.”

A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.

THE FOX AND THE CROW

A CROW snatched a piece of cheese out of a window and flew with it up
into a tree, to eat it at leisure. A Fox passing by chanced to look
up and saw her. He coveted the prize and thus made his approaches
to secure it. “O Crow,” said he, “how beautiful are thy wings and
how bright are thine eyes! how graceful thy neck! What a pity that
such a bird should want only a voice!” Yielding to the flattery, the
Crow opened her mouth to surprise the Fox with her caw, when down
dropped the cheese, which the Fox, snapping up, ate as he walked away,
remarking that whatever he had said of her voice he did not say of her
brains.

THE PARTRIDGE AND THE FOWLER

A PARTRIDGE, having been taken in the net of a Fowler, cried out
piteously, “Spare me, good Master Fowler, and I promise you, on my
word, that I will decoy other partridges into your net.”

“No,” replied the man, “whatever I might have done, I am determined
now not to let you go; for no death is too bad for one who is ready to
betray his friends.”

THE THIRSTY PIGEON

A PIGEON, pressed by thirst and seeing a glass of water painted on a
sign, supposed it to be real. Dashing down at it with all her might,
she struck against the hard board, and breaking her wing, she fell
helpless to the ground and was soon captured by one who passed by.

Great haste is not always good speed.

THE THREE TRADESMEN