THERE was a certain city in danger of being besieged, and a council
was called accordingly, to consider the best means of fortifying it.
A Bricklayer gave his judgment that no material was so good for the
purpose as brick. A Carpenter begged leave to suggest that timber would
be preferable, upon which a Currier started up and said, “Sirs, when
all has been said that can be said, there is nothing in the world like
leather.”

THE HARES AND THE FROGS

IN DESPERATION over the hard times they had on account of their many
enemies, the Hares came together and, after rehearsing their situation,
came to the sad conclusion that nothing was left to them but to drown
themselves as the most miserable and unfortunate of creatures. They
repaired to a pond to throw themselves off a rock into the water and
thus make an end of their troubles. A shoal of frogs were sitting
around the edge of the pond, and at the approach of the Hares they
were startled, and with the greatest confusion jumped into the water.
Whereupon the foremost of the Hares said to his fellows: “Nay, then,
friends, our case may not be as desperate as we thought. Here are other
creatures more faint-hearted than are we.”

THE EAGLE AND THE FOX

AN EAGLE and a Fox had lived together as good neighbors, the former
on the summit of a high tree, the latter in a hole at the foot of it.
One day when the Fox was abroad, the Eagle swooped down and snatched
the Fox’s cub and carried it up to her nest, thinking that her high
dwelling made her secure from the Fox’s revenge. The Fox returning
upbraided the Eagle for such a breach of confidence and begged to have
her young one returned to her. Finding that her entreaties availed
nothing, the Fox snatched a brand from an altar fire which had been
lighted hard by and proceeded to involve the whole tree in flames. The
Eagle, to protect her nest and her own young ones, restored the cub
to its mother, which she would not do in answer to the most earnest
entreaties.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

CLASSICS FOR CHILDREN

THIS popular series of classics is now in process of revision.
Distinguishing features of the new volumes are the attractive bindings,
the clear and inviting type page, and the many drawings by well-known
illustrators of children’s books. The series now includes over fifty
volumes of the best in the world’s literature, and the titles have been
chosen for their genuine appeal to young people.

Æsop: Fables (Stickney). Illustrated by Bull
      The Herford Æsop. Fifty Fables in Verse. Illustrated by the author

Andersen: Fairy Tales.
      First Series (Stickney). Illustrated by Hart
      Second Series (Stickney). Illustrated by Hart

Arabian Nights’ Entertainments (Lane). Illustrated by Winckler

Bunyan: Pilgrim’s Progress. Illustrated by Bennett

Burt: Stories from Plato and other Classic Writers

Cervantes: Don Quixote (Wheaton)

Chamisso: Peter Schlemihl (Alger)

Chesterfield: Letters (Ginn)

Church: Stories of the Old World. Illustrated by Copeland

Cooper: The Spy (Griffin). Illustrated by Bridgman