“Oh dear me! What a narrow escape!” exclaimed Fluffy, as she stooped
down and picked up a tiny little woodpecker that had fallen to the
ground. “Your mother must be very careless to let you fall.” “No,” said
the little chap, “Mother has gone for food for us and I played too near
the edge of the stump and fell off.” Just then the woodpecker’s mother
returned, and being alarmed that something was happening to her babies,
came flying toward Fluffy screaming, “What are you doing here?” “I am
not harming your children,” said Fluffy. “I was just putting your
little baby back in your nest. He had fallen to the ground and could
not get up himself. It was lucky for him that I saw him when I did, for
I almost stepped on him.” By this time Mrs. Woodpecker was over her
alarm and was very sorry she had spoken so crossly. “Please forgive
me,” she said, “I was so terribly frightened I hardly knew what I was
saying. I thank you a thousand times; should you ever need a friend,
let me know and I will do all I can to help you.” Fluffy did not wait
to talk longer; she knew it was getting nearer party time every minute,
so she hurried on.

CHAPTER FIVE

“Now,” thought Fluffy-tail, “I shall not stop again, no matter what
happens--I’ll just hustle along and not stop until I reach Squire
Squirrel’s house. Why, it must be time for the party now!” she thought,
as she looked at her tiny little wrist watch. While looking at her
watch she heard a fluttering and rustling in the leaves along the
roadside. “I’ll not stop,” she thought, “I’ll just pretend I don’t
hear anything.” She had only gone a few steps though when she had to
turn back to see what was wrong. She was such a tender-hearted little
creature, she could not go to a place where she knew she was to have
a good time and feel that she might by any chance have passed by some
suffering little person.

“What is it?” she asked rather impatiently, as she glanced to where the
noise seemed to come from. “You needn’t be so cross about it!” said a
little Bat that was lying alongside the path. “Won’t you please pick me
up and hang me on that old tree? I guess I must have fallen asleep and
loosed my hold on the bark. No! No! Not that way!” he said, as Fluffy
was trying to place him on the branch. “Hang me upside down. That’s the
way I sleep.”