“Won’t you please give me those tears?” Fluffy heard a tiny voice ask.
“I am withering away and must die soon if somebody does not give a
me tiny drink.” Looking down, Fluffy saw a tiny little Bluebell all
wilted, and looking so sad. “The trees are so thick here,” it said,
“I cannot get the rain or dew, and the fairies are having a big party
today and have forgotten poor little me.” By this time Fluffy’s tears
were all dried up, seeing some one in distress made her forget her
own troubles. “I can’t give you my tears,” she said, “for they have
all dried now, but I can get you some water from the brook,” so again
putting down her dear little fan and hanky she skipped off to the brook
to get the water. She had nothing in which to carry it so she made a
cup of her tiny hands and was stepping from one stone to another when
her little foot slipped and splash into the water it went. “Oh, my dear
little shoe!” wailed Fluffy as she looked down and saw the pretty bow
all wet and muddy, “I can never go to the party now.”

She tried her best to wipe off the mud and fluff up the bow and then
got more water which she took back to the little Bluebell who was
eagerly waiting for her to return. “There now, raise up your head and
be happy,” said Fluffy as she poured the water around its tiny roots.
“If you want more I shall get it for you, then I must try to find my
way home, as I have lost my way to Furrikins’ party.” By this time the
little Bluebell was refreshed after its hearty drink and told Fluffy
the way to reach Furrikins’ home.

CHAPTER SEVEN

Thanking the little flower, she again started out and was just making
the last turn when who should she see in her path but Old Tabby Cat.
Fluffy looked but for an instant. She knew she must move quickly to
escape, so she turned about, yelled for help as loudly as she could,
and ran just as fast as her little legs would carry her. She was tired
already after her long walk and could not make very good time. Old
Tabby was gaining on her rapidly when Mrs. Woodpecker, who had heard
Fluffy’s first cry for help, flew at once to the rescue. She jumped on
Mrs. Tabby’s head and began pecking for all she was worth. This was
herself enough to peep out to try to discover just what had attacked
her. As she did so a big stone dropped from some place down in the
hole beside her, pinning her tail fast. It was some time before little
Timmy Mouse (for it was he who had rolled the stone on Old Tabby’s
tail) dared to look over the edge of the pit to see how well his plans
worked. “So it was you?” said Tabby, glaring at Timmy.