One look was enough for little Timmy and he scurried off home as fast
as he could go.

thankful to have escaped Old Tabby, but fearful of some new danger at
every step.

Suddenly a voice beside her said, “Don’t be frightened, follow close to
me for I can see quite well in the dark. You did me a good turn once in
the daylight and now I can help you in the dark.” With these words, Mr.
Bat (for it was the same one she had helped that afternoon when he had
fallen from the tree) took hold of her hand and led her to Furrykins’
home where they were all waiting to greet her. After Mrs. Woodpecker
had jumped on Mrs. Tabby, she flew on to tell the little folks at the
party all about poor Fluffy’s experience, and to ask them to keep the
party waiting just a little longer.

CHAPTER NINE

It was surely a grand party. They had it on their beautiful lawn and
the moon had come out so brightly that the little folks played all
their games they had arranged for the daytime. There were nuts, apples,
candies, and all sorts of goodies to eat, nice games to play, and they
danced around in the moonlight till the Whip-poor-will called, which
was the curfew for all.

As it was so late when Fluffy arrived at the party, Mrs. Furrykins sent
a message to her mother telling her that she would keep her all night
and send her home early next morning. So after the party was over and
all the little folk had gone to their homes in the woods, Mrs. Squire
Squirrel tucked Fluffy and Furrykins in her daughter’s little bed,
kissed each of them “goodnight,” heard them say their prayers, and went
quietly to her own room on the opposite side of the big oak tree.

CHAPTER TEN

Fluffy was too tired to dream of the many experiences she had had that
day and went to sleep quickly. Early next morning, as promised, Mrs.
Furrykins saw to it that Fluffy was taken safely home. Her mother was
anxiously waiting for her at the door and each was happy to feel the
other’s arms around her.

Mother Squirrel kissed her little daughter after each adventure was
told to her, and wiping the tears from her eyes when Fluffy had
finished, she said, “After all, Fluffy dear, you see that one can
never lose anything by being kind to others. You are home again safe
and sound and I’m glad you enjoyed the party.”