"I am not going to stand this," said he; "wait till I find the right man
to help me, and the king shall give me all the treasures of his kingdom
before he has done with me."

Then, full of wrath, he went into the forest, and he saw one standing
there by six trees which he had rooted up as if they had been stalks of
corn. And he said to him,

"Will you be my man, and come along with me?"

"All right," answered he; "I must just take this bit of wood home to my
father and mother." And taking one of the trees, he bound it round the
other five, and putting the faggot on his shoulder, he carried it off;
then soon coming back, he went along with his leader, who said,

"Two such as we can stand against the whole world."

And when they had gone on a little while, they came to a huntsman who
was kneeling on one knee and taking careful aim with his rifle.

"Huntsman," said the leader, "what are you aiming at?"

"Two miles from here," answered he, "there sits a fly on the bough of an
oak-tree, I mean to put a bullet into its left eye."

"Oh, come along with me," said the leader; "three of us together can
stand against the world."

The huntsman was quite willing to go with him, and so they went on till
they came to seven windmills, whose sails were going round briskly, and
yet there was no wind blowing from any quarter, and not a leaf stirred.

"Well," said the leader, "I cannot think what ails the windmills,
turning without wind;" and he went on with his followers about two miles
farther, and then they came to a man sitting up in a tree, holding one
nostril and blowing with the other.

"Now then," said the leader, "what are you doing up there?"

"Two miles from here," answered he, "there are seven windmills; I am
blowing, and they are going round."

"Oh, go with me," cried the leader, "four of us together can stand
against the world."

So the blower got down and went with them, and after a time they came to
a man standing on one leg, and the other had been taken off and was
lying near him.

"You seem to have got a handy way of resting yourself," said the leader
to the man.

"I am a runner," answered he, "and in order to keep myself from going
too fast I have taken off a leg, for when I run with both, I go faster
than a bird can fly."

"Oh, go with me," cried the leader, "five of us together may well stand
against the world."

So he went with them all together, and it was not long before they met a
man with a little hat on, and he wore it just over one ear.

"Manners! manners!" said the leader; "with your hat like that, you look
like a jack-fool."