"I dare not put it straight," answered the other; "if I did, there would
be such a terrible frost that the very birds would be frozen and fall
dead from the sky to the ground."

"Oh, come with me," said the leader; "we six together may well stand
against the whole world."

So the six went on until they came to a town where the king had caused
it to be made known that whoever would run a race with his daughter and
win it might become her husband, but that whoever lost must lose his
head into the bargain. And the leader came forward and said one of his
men should run for him.

"Then," said the king, "his life too must be put in pledge, and if he
fails, his head and yours too must fall."

When this was quite settled and agreed upon, the leader called the
runner, and strapped his second leg on to him.

"Now, look out," said he, "and take care that we win."

It had been agreed that the one who should bring water first from a far
distant brook should be accounted winner. Now the king's daughter and
the runner each took a pitcher, and they started both at the same time;
but in one moment, when the king's daughter had gone but a very little
way, the runner was out of sight, for his running was as if the wind
rushed by. In a short time he reached the brook, filled his pitcher full
of water, and turned back again. About half-way home, however, he was
overcome with weariness, and setting down his pitcher, he lay down on
the ground to sleep. But in order to awaken soon again by not lying too
soft he had taken a horse's skull which lay near and placed it under his
head for a pillow. In the meanwhile the king's daughter, who really was
a good runner, good enough to beat an ordinary man, had reached the
brook, and filled her pitcher, and was hastening with it back again,
when she saw the runner lying asleep.

"The day is mine," said she with much joy, and she emptied his pitcher
and hastened on. And now all had been lost but for the huntsman who was
standing on the castle wall, and with his keen eyes saw all that
happened.

"We must not be outdone by the king's daughter," said he, and he loaded
his rifle and took so good an aim that he shot the horse's skull from
under the runner's head without doing him any harm. And the runner awoke
and jumped up, and saw his pitcher standing empty and the king's
daughter far on her way home. But, not losing courage, he ran swiftly to
the brook, filled it again with water, and for all that, he got home ten
minutes before the king's daughter.

"Look you," said he; "this is the first time I have really stretched my
legs; before it was not worth the name of running."