The king was vexed, and his daughter yet more so, that she should be
beaten by a discharged common soldier; and they took counsel together
how they might rid themselves of him and of his companions at the same
time.

"I have a plan," said the king; "do not fear but that we shall be quit
of them for ever." Then he went out to the men and bade them to feast
and be merry and eat and drink; and he led them into a room, which had a
floor of iron, and the doors were iron, the windows had iron frames and
bolts; in the room was a table set out with costly food.

"Now, go in there and make yourselves comfortable," said the king.

And when they had gone in, he had the door locked and bolted. Then he
called the cook, and told him to make a big fire underneath the room, so
that the iron floor of it should be red hot. And the cook did so, and
the six men began to feel the room growing very warm, by reason, as they
thought at first, of the good dinner; but as the heat grew greater and
greater, and they found the doors and windows fastened, they began to
think it was an evil plan of the king's to suffocate them.

"He shall not succeed, however," said the man with the little hat; "I
will bring on a frost that shall make the fire feel ashamed of itself,
and creep out of the way."

So he set his hat straight on his head, and immediately there came such
a frost that all the heat passed away and the food froze in the dishes.
After an hour or two had passed, and the king thought they must have all
perished in the heat, he caused the door to be opened, and went himself
to see how they fared. And when the door flew back, there they were all
six quite safe and sound, and they said they were quite ready to come
out, so that they might warm themselves, for the great cold of that room
had caused the food to freeze in the dishes. Full of wrath, the king
went to the cook and scolded him, and asked why he had not done as he
was ordered.

"It is hot enough there: you may see for yourself," answered the cook.
And the king looked and saw an immense fire burning underneath the room
of iron, and he began to think that the six men were not to be got rid
of in that way. And he thought of a new plan by which it might be
managed, so he sent for the leader and said to him,

"If you will give up your right to my daughter, and take gold instead,
you may have as much as you like."