THERE was once a cook called Grethel, who wore shoes with red heels, and
when she went out in them she gave herself great airs, and thought
herself very fine indeed. When she came home again, she would take a
drink of wine to refresh herself, and as that gave her an appetite, she
would take some of the best of whatever she was cooking, until she had
had enough;--"for," said she, "a cook must know how things taste."

Now it happened that one day her master said to her,--

"Grethel, I expect a guest this evening; you must make ready a pair of
fowls."

"Certainly, sir, I will," answered Grethel. So she killed the fowls,
cleaned them, and plucked them, and put them on the spit, and then, as
evening drew near, placed them before the fire to roast. And they began
to be brown, and were nearly done, but the guest had not come.

"If he does not make haste," cried Grethel to her master, "I must take
them away from the fire; it's a pity and a shame not to eat them now,
just when they are done to a turn." And the master said he would run
himself and fetch the guest. As soon as he had turned his back, Grethel
took the fowls from before the fire.

"Standing so long before the fire," said she, "makes one hot and
thirsty,--and who knows when they will come! in the meanwhile I will go
to the cellar and have a drink." So down she ran, took up a mug, and
saying, "Here's to me!" took a good draught. "One good drink deserves
another," she said "and it should not be cut short;" so she took another
hearty draught. Then she went and put the fowls down to the fire again,
and, basting them with butter, she turned the spit briskly round. And
now they began to smell so good that Grethel saying, "I must find out
whether they really are all right," licked her fingers, and then cried,
"Well, I never! the fowls are good; it's a sin and a shame that no one
is here to eat them!"

So she ran to the window to see if her master and his guest were coming,
but as she could see nobody she went back to her fowls. "Why, one of the
wings is burning!" she cried presently, "I had better eat it and get it
out of the way." So she cut it off and ate it up, and it tasted good,
and then she thought,

"I had better cut off the other too, in case the master should miss
anything." And when both wings had been disposed of she went and looked
for the master, but still he did not come.