"I will lay myself across, so that you may pass over on me." But when
the six mice had got upon this bridge, the straw slipped and fell into
the water and they all tumbled in and were drowned. So they were as
badly off as ever, when a coal came up and said he would lay himself
across and they might pass over him; but no sooner had he touched the
water than he hissed, went out, and was dead. A stone seeing this was
touched with pity, and, wishing to help the cock, he laid himself across
the stream. And the cock drew the waggon with the dead hen in it safely
to the other side, and then began to draw the others who followed behind
across too, but it was too much for him, the waggon turned over, and all
tumbled into the water one on the top of another, and were drowned.

So the cock was left all alone with the dead hen, and he digged a grave
and laid her in it, and he raised a mound above her, and sat himself
down and lamented so sore that at last he died. And so they were all
dead together.

HANS IN LUCK

HANS had served his master seven years, and at the end of the seventh
year he said,

"Master, my time is up; I want to go home and see my mother, so give me
my wages."

"You have served me truly and faithfully," said the master; "as the
service is, so must the wages be," and he gave him a lump of gold as big
as his head. Hans pulled his handkerchief out of his pocket and tied up
the lump of gold in it, hoisted it on his shoulder, and set off on his
way home. And as he was trudging along, there came in sight a man riding
on a spirited horse, and looking very gay and lively. "Oh!" cried Hans
aloud, "how splendid riding must be! sitting as much at one's ease as in
an arm-chair, stumbling over no stones, saving one's shoes, and getting
on one hardly knows how!"

The horseman heard Hans say this, and called out to him,

"Well Hans, what are you doing on foot?"

"I can't help myself," said Hans, "I have this great lump to carry; to
be sure, it is gold, but then I can't hold my head straight for it, and
it hurts my shoulder."

"I'll tell you what," said the horseman, "we will change; I will give
you my horse, and you shall give me your lump of gold."

"With all my heart," said Hans; "but I warn you, you will find it
heavy." And the horseman got down, took the gold, and, helping Hans up,
he gave the reins into his hand.

"When you want to go fast," said he, "you must click your tongue and cry
'Gee-up!'"