And Hans, as he sat upon his horse, was glad at heart, and rode off with
merry cheer. After a while he thought he should like to go quicker, so
he began to click with his tongue and to cry "Gee-up!" And the horse
began to trot, and Hans was thrown before he knew what was going to
happen, and there he lay in the ditch by the side of the road. The horse
would have got away but that he was caught by a peasant who was passing
that way and driving a cow before him. And Hans pulled himself together
and got upon his feet, feeling very vexed. "Poor work, riding," said he,
"especially on a jade like this, who starts off and throws you before
you know where you are, going near to break your neck; never shall I try
that game again; now, your cow is something worth having, one can jog on
comfortably after her and have her milk, butter, and cheese every day,
into the bargain. What would I not give to have such a cow!"

"Well now," said the peasant, "since it will be doing you such a favour,
I don't mind exchanging my cow for your horse."

Hans agreed most joyfully, and the peasant, swinging himself into the
saddle, was soon out of sight.

And Hans went along driving his cow quietly before him, and thinking all
the while of the fine bargain he had made.

"With only a piece of bread I shall have everything I can possibly want,
for I shall always be able to have butter and cheese to it, and if I am
thirsty I have nothing to do but to milk my cow; and what more is there
for heart to wish!"

And when he came to an inn he made a halt, and in the joy of his heart
ate up all the food he had brought with him, dinner and supper and all,
and bought half a glass of beer with his last two farthings. Then on he
went again driving his cow, until he should come to the village where
his mother lived. It was now near the middle of the day, and the sun
grew hotter and hotter, and Hans found himself on a heath which it would
be an hour's journey to cross. And he began to feel very hot, and so
thirsty that his tongue clove to the roof of his mouth.

"Never mind," said Hans; "I can find a remedy. I will milk my cow at
once." And tying her to a dry tree, and taking off his leather cap to
serve for a pail, he began to milk, but not a drop came. And as he set
to work rather awkwardly, the impatient beast gave him such a kick on
the head with his hind foot that he fell to the ground, and for some
time could not think where he was; when luckily there came by a butcher
who was wheeling along a young pig in a wheelbarrow.