"Here's a fine piece of work!" cried he, helping poor Hans on his legs
again. Then Hans related to him all that had happened; and the butcher
handed him his pocket-flask, saying,

"Here, take a drink, and be a man again; of course the cow would give no
milk; she is old and only fit to draw burdens, or to be slaughtered."

"Well, to be sure," said Hans, scratching his head. "Who would have
thought it? of course it is a very handy way of getting meat when a man
has a beast of his own to kill; but for my part I do not care much about
cow beef, it is rather tasteless. Now, if I had but a young pig, that is
much better meat, and then the sausages!"

"Look here, Hans," said the butcher, "just for love of you I will
exchange, and will give you my pig instead of your cow."

"Heaven reward such kindness!" cried Hans, and handing over the cow,
received in exchange the pig, who was turned out of his wheelbarrow and
was to be led by a string.

So on went Hans, thinking how everything turned out according to his
wishes, and how, if trouble overtook him, all was sure to be set right
directly. After a while he fell in with a peasant, who was carrying a
fine white goose under his arm. They bid each other good-day, and Hans
began to tell about his luck, and how he had made so many good
exchanges. And the peasant told how he was taking the goose to a
christening feast.

"Just feel how heavy it is," said he, taking it up by the wings; "it has
been fattening for the last eight weeks; and when it is roasted, won't
the fat run down!"

"Yes, indeed," said Hans, weighing it in his hand, "very fine to be
sure; but my pig is not to be despised."

Upon which the peasant glanced cautiously on all sides, and shook his
head.

"I am afraid," said he, "that there is something not quite right about
your pig. In the village I have just left one had actually been stolen
from the bailiff's yard. I fear, I fear you have it in your hand; they
have sent after the thief, and it would be a bad look-out for you if it
was found upon you; the least that could happen would be to be thrown
into a dark hole."

Poor Hans grew pale with fright. "For heaven's sake," said he, "help me
out of this scrape, I am a stranger in these parts; take my pig and give
me your goose."