Hans lifted up the stone and carried it off with a contented mind. "I
must have been born under a lucky star!" cried he, while his eyes
sparkled for joy. "I have only to wish for a thing and it is mine."

After a while he began to feel rather tired, as indeed he had been on
his legs since daybreak; he also began to feel rather hungry, as in the
fulness of his joy at getting the cow, he had eaten up all he had. At
last he could scarcely go on at all, and had to make a halt every
moment, for the stones weighed him down most unmercifully, and he could
not help wishing that he did not feel obliged to drag them along. And on
he went at a snail's pace until he came to a well; then he thought he
would rest and take a drink of the fresh water. And he placed the stones
carefully by his side at the edge of the well; then he sat down, and as
he stooped to drink, he happened to give the stones a little push, and
they both fell into the water with a splash. And then Hans, having
watched them disappear, jumped for joy, and thanked his stars that he
had been so lucky as to get rid of the stones that had weighed upon him
so long without any effort of his own.

"I really think," cried he, "I am the luckiest man under the sun." So on
he went, void of care, until he reached his mother's house.

THE GOOSE GIRL.

THERE lived once an old Queen, whose husband had been dead many years.
She had a beautiful daughter who was promised in marriage to a King's
son living a great way off. When the time appointed for the wedding drew
near, and the old Queen had to send her daughter into the foreign land,
she got together many costly things, furniture and cups and jewels and
adornments, both of gold and silver, everything proper for the dowry of
a royal Princess, for she loved her daughter dearly. She gave her also a
waiting gentlewoman to attend her and to give her into the bridegroom's
hands; and they were each to have a horse for the journey, and the
Princess's horse was named Falada, and he could speak. When the time for
parting came, the old Queen took her daughter to her chamber, and with a
little knife she cut her own finger so that it bled; and she held
beneath it a white napkin, and on it fell three drops of blood; and she
gave it to her daughter, bidding her take care of it, for it would be
needful to her on the way. Then they took leave of each other; and the
Princess put the napkin in her bosom, got on her horse, and set out to
go to the bridegroom. After she had ridden an hour, she began to feel
very thirsty, and she said to the waiting-woman,