"Get down, and fill my cup that you are carrying with water from the
brook; I have great desire to drink."

"Get down yourself," said the waiting-woman, "and if you are thirsty
stoop down and drink; I will not be your slave."

And as her thirst was so great, the Princess had to get down and to
stoop and drink of the water of the brook, and could not have her gold
cup to serve her. "Oh dear!" said the poor Princess. And the three drops
of blood heard her, and said,

"If your mother knew of this, it would break her heart."

But the Princess answered nothing, and quietly mounted her horse again.
So they rode on some miles farther; the day was warm, the sun shone hot,
and the Princess grew thirsty once more. And when they came to a
water-course she called again to the waiting-woman and said,

"Get down, and give me to drink out of my golden cup." For she had
forgotten all that had gone before. But the waiting-woman spoke still
more scornfully and said,

"If you want a drink, you may get it yourself; I am not going to be your
slave."

So, as her thirst was so great, the Princess had to get off her horse
and to stoop towards the running water to drink, and as she stooped, she
wept and said, "Oh dear!" And the three drops of blood heard her and
answered,

"If your mother knew of this, it would break her heart!"

And as she drank and stooped over, the napkin on which were the three
drops of blood fell out of her bosom and floated down the stream, and in
her distress she never noticed it; not so the waiting-woman, who
rejoiced because she should have power over the bride, who, now that she
had lost the three drops of blood, had become weak, and unable to defend
herself. And when she was going to mount her horse again the
waiting-woman cried,

"Falada belongs to me, and this jade to you." And the Princess had to
give way and let it be as she said. Then the waiting-woman ordered the
Princess with many hard words to take off her rich clothing and to put
on her plain garments, and then she made her swear to say nothing of the
matter when they came to the royal court; threatening to take her life
if she refused. And all the while Falada noticed and remembered.