The waiting-woman then mounting Falada, and the Princess the sorry jade,
they journeyed on till they reached the royal castle. There was great
joy at their coming, and the King's son hastened to meet them, and
lifted the waiting woman from her horse, thinking she was his bride; and
then he led her up the stairs, while the real Princess had to remain
below. But the old King, who was looking out of the window, saw her
standing in the yard, and noticed how delicate and gentle and beautiful
she was, and then he went down and asked the seeming bride who it was
that she had brought with her and that was now standing in the
courtyard.

"Oh!" answered the bride, "I only brought her with me for company; give
the maid something to do, that she may not be for ever standing idle."

But the old King had no work to give her; until he bethought him of a
boy he had who took care of the geese, and that she might help him. And
so the real Princess was sent to keep geese with the goose-boy, who was
called Conrad.

Soon after the false bride said to the Prince,

"Dearest husband, I pray thee do me a pleasure."

"With all my heart," answered he.

"Then" said she, "send for the knacker, that he may carry off the horse
I came here upon, and make away with him; he was very troublesome to me
on the journey." For she was afraid that the horse might tell how she
had behaved to the Princess. And when the order had been given that
Falada should die, it came to the Princess's ears, and she came to the
knacker's man secretly, and promised him a piece of gold if he would do
her a service. There was in the town a great dark gate-way through which
she had to pass morning and evening with her geese, and she asked the
man to take Falada's head and to nail it on the gate, that she might
always see it as she passed by. And the man promised, and he took
Falada's head and nailed it fast in the dark gate-way.

Early next morning as she and Conrad drove their geese through the gate,
she said as she went by,

"O Falada, dost thou hang there?"

And the head answered,

"Princess, dost thou so meanly fare?
    But if thy mother knew thy pain,
    Her heart would surely break in twain."

But she went on through the town, driving her geese to the field. And
when they came into the meadows, she sat down and undid her hair, which
was all of gold, and when Conrad saw how it glistened, he wanted to pull
out a few hairs for himself. And she said,

"O wind, blow Conrad's hat away,
    Make him run after as it flies,
    While I with my gold hair will play,
    And twist it up in seemly wise."