Then there came a wind strong enough to blow Conrad's hat far away over
the fields, and he had to run after it; and by the time he came back she
had put up her hair with combs and pins, and he could not get at any to
pull it out; and he was sulky and would not speak to her; so they looked
after the geese until the evening came, and then they went home.

The next morning, as they passed under the dark gate-way, the Princess
said,

"O Falada, dost thou hang there?"

And Falada answered,

"Princess, dost thou so meanly fare?
    But if thy mother knew thy pain,
    Her heart would surely break in twain."

And when they reached the fields she sat down and began to comb out her
hair; then Conrad came up and wanted to seize upon some of it, and she
cried,

"O wind, blow Conrad's hat away,
    Make him run after as it flies,
    While I with my gold hair will play,
    And do it up in seemly wise."

Then the wind came and blew Conrad's hat very far away, so that he had
to run after it, and when he came back again her hair was put up again,
so that he could pull none of it out; and they tended the geese until
the evening.

And after they had got home, Conrad went to the old King and said, "I
will tend the geese no longer with that girl!"

"Why not?" asked the old King.

"Because she vexes me the whole day long," answered Conrad. Then the old
King ordered him to tell how it was.

"Every morning," said Conrad, "as we pass under the dark gate-way with
the geese, there is an old horse's head hanging on the wall, and she
says to it,

"O Falada, dost thou hang there?"

And the head answers,

"Princess, dost thou so meanly fare?
    But if thy mother knew thy pain,
    Her heart would surely break in twain."

And besides this, Conrad related all that happened in the fields, and
how he was obliged to run after his hat.

The old King told him to go to drive the geese next morning as usual,
and he himself went behind the gate and listened how the maiden spoke to
Falada; and then he followed them into the fields, and hid himself
behind a bush; and he watched the goose-boy and the goose-girl tend the
geese; and after a while he saw the girl make her hair all loose, and
how it gleamed and shone. Soon she said,

"O wind, blow Conrad's hat away,
    And make him follow as it flies,
    While I with my gold hair will play,
    And bind it up in seemly wise."