Then there came a gust of wind and away went Conrad's hat, and he after
it, while the maiden combed and bound up her hair; and the old King saw
all that went on. At last he went unnoticed away, and when the
goose-girl came back in the evening he sent for her, and asked the
reason of her doing all this.

"That I dare not tell you," she answered, "nor can I tell any man of my
woe, for when I was in danger of my life I swore an oath not to reveal
it." And he pressed her sore, and left her no peace, but he could get
nothing out of her. At last he said,

"If you will not tell it me, tell it to the iron oven," and went away.
Then she crept into the iron oven, and began to weep and to lament, and
at last she opened her heart and said,

"Here I sit forsaken of all the world, and I am a King's daughter, and a
wicked waiting-woman forced me to give up my royal garments and my place
at the bridegroom's side, and I am made a goose-girl, and have to do
mean service. And if my mother knew, it would break her heart."

Now the old King was standing outside by the oven-door listening, and he
heard all she said, and he called to her and told her to come out of the
oven. And he caused royal clothing to be put upon her, and it was a
marvel to see how beautiful she was. The old King then called his son
and proved to him that he had the wrong bride, for she was really only a
waiting-woman, and that the true bride was here at hand, she who had
been the goose-girl. The Prince was glad at heart when he saw her beauty
and gentleness; and a great feast was made ready, and all the court
people and good friends were bidden to it. The bridegroom sat in the
midst with the Princess on one side and the waiting-woman on the other;
and the false bride did not know the true one, because she was dazzled
with her glittering braveries. When all the company had eaten and drunk
and were merry, the old King gave the waiting-woman a question to
answer, as to what such an one deserved, who had deceived her masters in
such and such a manner, telling the whole story, and ending by asking,

"Now, what doom does such an one deserve?"

"No better than this," answered the false bride, "that she be put naked

"Thou hast spoken thy own doom," said the old King; "as thou hast said,
so shall it be done." And when the sentence was fulfilled, the Prince
married the true bride, and ever after they ruled over their kingdom in
peace and blessedness.

THE RAVEN