THERE was once a Queen and she had a little daughter, who was as yet a
babe in arms; and once the child was so restless that the mother could
get no peace, do what she would; so she lost patience, and seeing a
flight of ravens passing over the castle, she opened the window and said
to her child,

"Oh, that thou wert a raven and couldst fly away, that I might be at
peace."

No sooner had she uttered the words, than the child was indeed changed
into a raven, and fluttered from her arms out of the window. And she
flew into a dark wood and stayed there a long time, and her parents knew
nothing of her. Once a man was passing through the wood, and he heard
the raven cry, and he followed the voice; and when he came near it said,

"I was born a King's daughter, and have been bewitched, but thou canst
set me free."

"What shall I do?" asked the man.

"Go deeper into the wood," said she, "and thou shalt find a house and an
old woman sitting in it: she will offer thee meat and drink, but thou
must take none; if thou eatest or drinkest thou fallest into a deep
sleep, and canst not set me free at all. In the garden behind the house
is a big heap of tan, stand upon that and wait for me. Three days, at
about the middle of the day, shall I come to thee in a car drawn by four
white horses the first time, by four red ones the second time, and
lastly by four black ones; and if thou art not waking but sleeping, thou
failest to set me free."

The man promised to do all she said.

"But ah!" cried she, "I know quite well I shall not be set free of thee;
something thou wilt surely take from the old woman."

But the man promised yet once more that certainly he would not touch the
meat or the drink. But when he came to the house the old woman came up
to him.

"My poor man," said she to him, "you are quite tired out, come and be
refreshed, and eat and drink."

"No," said the man, "I will eat and drink nothing."

But she left him no peace, saying,

"Even if you eat nothing, take a draught out of this cup once and away."

So he was over-persuaded, and he drank.

In the afternoon, about two o'clock, he went out into the garden to
stand upon the tan-heap and wait for the raven. As he stood there he
felt all at once so tired, that he could bear it no longer, and laid
himself down for a little; but not to sleep. But no sooner was he
stretched at length than his eyes closed of themselves, and he fell
asleep, and slept so sound, as if nothing in the world could awaken him.