At two o'clock came the raven in the car drawn by four white horses, but
she was sad, knowing already that the man would be asleep, and so, when
she came into the garden, there he lay sure enough. And she got out of
the car and shook him and called to him, but he did not wake. The next
day at noon the old woman came and brought him meat and drink, but he
would take none. But she left him no peace, and persuaded him until he
took a draught out of the cup. About two o'clock he went into the garden
to stand upon the tan-heap, and to wait for the raven, but he was
overcome with so great a weariness that his limbs would no longer hold
him up; and whether he would or no he had to lie down, and he fell into
a deep sleep. And when the raven came up with her four red horses, she
was sad, knowing already that the man would be asleep. And she went up
to him, and there he lay, and nothing would wake him.

The next day the old woman came and asked what was the matter with him,
and if he wanted to die, that he would neither eat nor drink; but he
answered,

"I neither can nor will eat and drink."

But she brought the dishes of food and the cup of wine, and placed them
before him, and when the smell came in his nostrils he could not
refrain, but took a deep draught. When the hour drew near, he went into
the garden and stood on the tan-heap to wait for the king's daughter; as
time went on he grew more and more weary, and at last he laid himself
down and slept like a stone. At two o'clock came the raven with four
black horses, and the car and all was black; and she was sad, knowing
already that he was sleeping, and would not be able to set her free; and
when she came up to him, there he lay and slept. She shook him and
called to him, but she could not wake him. Then she laid a loaf by his
side and some meat, and a flask of wine, for now, however much he ate
and drank, it could not matter. And she took a ring of gold from her
finger, and put it on his finger, and her name was engraven on it. And
lastly she laid by him a letter, in which was set down what she had
given him, and that all was of no use, and further also it said,

"I see that here thou canst not save me, but if thy mind is to the
thing, come to the golden castle of Stromberg: I know well that if thou
willst thou canst." And when all this was done, she got again into her
car, and went to the golden castle of Stromberg.