When the man waked up and perceived that he had been to sleep, he was
sad at heart to think that she had been, and gone, and that he had not
set her free. Then, catching sight of what lay beside him, he read the
letter that told him all. And he rose up and set off at once to go to
the golden castle of Stromberg, though he knew not where it was. And
when he had wandered about in the world for a long time, he came to a
dark wood, and there spent a fortnight trying to find the way out, and
not being able. At the end of this time, it being towards evening, he
was so tired that he laid himself down under a clump of bushes and went
to sleep. The next day he went on again, and in the evening, when he was
going to lie down again to rest, he heard howlings and lamentations, so
that he could not sleep. And about the hour when lamps are lighted, he
looked up and saw a light glimmer in the forest; and he got up and
followed it, and he found that it came from a house that looked very
small indeed, because there stood a giant before it. And the man thought
to himself that if he were to try to enter and the giant were to see
him, it would go hard but he should lose his life. At last he made up
his mind, and walked in. And the giant saw him.

"I am glad thou art come," said he; "it is now a long time since I have
had anything to eat; I shall make a good supper of thee."

"That may be," said the man, "but I shall not relish it; besides, if
thou desirest to eat, I have somewhat here that may satisfy thee."

"If that is true," answered the giant, "thou mayest make thy mind easy;
it was only for want of something better that I wished to devour thee."

Then they went in and placed themselves at the table, and the man
brought out bread, meat, and wine in plenty.

"This pleases me well," said the giant, and he ate to his heart's
content. After a while the man asked him if he could tell him where the
golden castle of Stromberg was.

"I will look on my land-chart," said the giant, "for on it all towns and
villages and houses are marked."

So he fetched the land-chart which was in his room, and sought for the
castle, but it was not to be found.

"Never mind," said he, "I have up-stairs in the cupboard much bigger
maps than this; we will have a look at them." And so they did, but in
vain.