And now the man wanted to pursue his journey, but the giant begged him
to stay a few days longer, until his brother, who had gone to get in a
store of provisions, should return. When the brother came, they asked
him about the golden castle of Stromberg.

"When I have had time to eat a meal and be satisfied, I will look at the
map."

That being done, he went into his room with them, and they looked at his
maps, but could find nothing: then he fetched other old maps, and they
never left off searching until they found the golden castle of
Stromberg, but it was many thousand miles away.

"How shall I ever get there?" said the man.

"I have a couple of hours to spare," said the giant, "and I will set you
on your way, but I shall have to come back and look after the child that
we have in the house with us."

Then the giant bore the man until within about a hundred hours' journey
from the castle, and saying,

"You can manage the rest of the way by yourself," he departed; and the
man went on day and night, until at last he came to the golden castle of
Stromberg. It stood on a mountain of glass, and he could see the
enchanted Princess driving round it, and then passing inside the gates.
He was rejoiced when he saw her, and began at once to climb the mountain
to get to her; but it was so slippery, as fast as he went he fell back
again. And when he saw this he felt he should never reach her, and he
was full of grief, and resolved at least to stay at the foot of the
mountain and wait for her. So he built himself a hut, and sat there and
waited a whole year; and every day he saw the Princess drive round and
pass in, and was never able to reach her.

One day he looked out of his hut and saw three robbers fighting, and he
called out, "Mercy on us!" Hearing a voice, they stopped for a moment,
but went on again beating one another in a dreadful manner. And he cried
out again, "Mercy on us!" They stopped and listened, and looked about
them, and then went on again. And he cried out a third time, "Mercy on
us!" and then, thinking he would go and see what was the matter, he went
out and asked them what they were fighting for. One of them told him he
had found a stick which would open any door only by knocking at it; the
second said he had found a cloak which, if he put it on, made him
invisible; the third said he was possessed of a horse that would ride
over everything, even the glass mountain. Now they had fought because
they could not agree whether they should enjoy these things in common or
separately.