Now it happened one day that the golden ball, instead of falling back
into the maiden's little hand which had sent it aloft, dropped to the
ground near the edge of the well and rolled in. The king's daughter
followed it with her eyes as it sank, but the well was deep, so deep
that the bottom could not be seen. Then she began to weep, and she wept
and wept as if she could never be comforted. And in the midst of her
weeping she heard a voice saying to her,

"What ails thee, king's daughter? thy tears would melt a heart of
stone."

And when she looked to see where the voice came from, there was nothing
but a frog stretching his thick ugly head out of the water.

"Oh, is it you, old waddler?" said she; "I weep because my golden ball
has fallen into the well."

"Never mind, do not weep," answered the frog; "I can help you; but what
will you give me if I fetch up your ball again?"

"Whatever you like, dear frog," said she; "any of my clothes, my pearls
and jewels, or even the golden crown that I wear."

"Thy clothes, thy pearls and jewels, and thy golden crown are not for
me," answered the frog; "but if thou wouldst love me, and have me for
thy companion and play-fellow, and let me sit by thee at table, and eat
from thy plate, and drink from thy cup, and sleep in thy little bed,--if
thou wouldst promise all this, then would I dive below the water and
fetch thee thy golden ball again."

"Oh yes," she answered; "I will promise it all, whatever you want, if
you will only get me my ball again."

But she thought to herself, "What nonsense he talks! as if he could do
anything but sit in the water and croak with the other frogs, or could
possibly be any one's companion."

But the frog, as soon as he heard her promise, drew his head under the
water and sank down out of sight, but after a while he came to the
surface again with the ball in his mouth, and he threw it on the grass.

The King's daughter was overjoyed to see her pretty play-thing again,
and she caught it up and ran off with it.

"Stop, stop!" cried the frog; "take me up too; I cannot run as fast as
you!"

But it was of no use, for croak, croak after her as he might, she would
not listen to him, but made haste home, and very soon forgot all about
the poor frog, who had to betake himself to his well again.

The next day, when the King's daughter was sitting at table with the
King and all the court, and eating from her golden plate, there came
something pitter patter up the marble stairs, and then there came a
knocking at the door, and a voice crying "Youngest King's daughter, let
me in!"