But as he fell, he ceased to be a frog, and became all at once a prince
with beautiful kind eyes. And it came to pass that, with her father's
consent, they became bride and bridegroom. And he told her how a wicked
witch had bound him by her spells, and how no one but she alone could
have released him, and that they two would go together to his father's
kingdom. And there came to the door a carriage drawn by eight white
horses, with white plumes on their heads, and with golden harness, and
behind the carriage was standing faithful Henry, the servant of the
young prince. Now, faithful Henry had suffered such care and pain when
his master was turned into a frog, that he had been obliged to wear
three iron bands over his heart, to keep it from breaking with trouble
and anxiety. When the carriage started to take the prince to his
kingdom, and faithful Henry had helped them both in, he got up behind,
and was full of joy at his master's deliverance. And when they had gone
a part of the way, the prince heard a sound at the back of the carriage,
as if something had broken, and he turned round and cried,

"Henry, the wheel must be breaking!" but Henry answered,

"The wheel does not break,
    'Tis the band round my heart
    That, to lessen its ache,
    When I grieved for your sake,
    I bound round my heart."

Again, and yet once again there was the same sound, and the prince
thought it must be the wheel breaking, but it was the breaking of the
other bands from faithful Henry's heart, because it was now so relieved
and happy.

CAT & MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP.

A CAT having made acquaintance with a mouse, professed such great love
and friendship for her, that the mouse at last agreed that they should
live and keep house together.

"We must make provision for the winter," said the cat, "or we shall
suffer hunger, and you, little mouse, must not stir out, or you will be
caught in a trap."

So they took counsel together and bought a little pot of fat. And then
they could not tell where to put it for safety, but after long
consideration the cat said there could not be a better place than the
church, for nobody would steal there; and they would put it under the
altar and not touch it until they were really in want. So this was done,
and the little pot placed in safety.

But before long the cat was seized with a great wish to taste it.

"Listen to me, little mouse," said he; "I have been asked by my cousin
to stand god-father to a little son she has brought into the world; he
is white with brown spots; and they want to have the christening to-day,
so let me go to it, and you stay at home and keep house."