"Now all is finished one's mind will be easy," said he, and came home in
the evening, quite sleek and comfortable. The mouse asked at once what
name had been given to the third child.

"It won't please you any better than the others," answered the cat. "It
is called All-gone."

"All-gone!" cried the mouse. "What an unheard-of-name! I never met with
anything like it! All-gone! whatever can it mean?" And shaking her head,
she curled herself round and went to sleep. After that the cat was not
again asked to stand god-father.

When the winter had come and there was nothing more to be had out of
doors, the mouse began to think of their store.

"Come, cat," said she, "we will fetch our pot of fat, how good it will
taste, to be sure!"

"Of course it will," said the cat, "just as good as if you stuck your
tongue out of window!"

So they set out, and when they reached the place, they found the pot,
but it was standing empty.

"Oh, now I know what it all meant," cried the mouse, "now I see what
sort of a partner you have been! Instead of standing god-father you have
devoured it all up; first Top-off, then Half-gone, then"----

"Will you hold your tongue!" screamed the cat, "another word, and I
devour you too!"

And the poor little mouse, having "All-gone" on her tongue, out it came,
and the cat leaped upon her and made an end of her. And that is the way
of the world.

The WOLF and the SEVEN LITTLE GOATS.

THERE was once an old goat who had seven little ones, and was as fond of
them as ever mother was of her children. One day she had to go into the
wood to fetch food for them, so she called them all round her.

"Dear children," said she, "I am going out into the wood; and while I am
gone, be on your guard against the wolf, for if he were once to get
inside he would eat you up, skin, bones, and all. The wretch often
disguises himself, but he may always be known by his hoarse voice and
black paws."

"Dear mother," answered the kids, "you need not be afraid, we will take
good care of ourselves." And the mother bleated good-bye, and went on
her way with an easy mind.

It was not long before some one came knocking at the house-door, and
crying out,

"Open the door, my dear children, your mother is come back, and has
brought each of you something."

But the little kids knew it was the wolf by the hoarse voice.

"We will not open the door," cried they; "you are not our mother, she
has a delicate and sweet voice, and your voice is hoarse; you must be
the wolf."

Then off went the wolf to a shop and bought a big lump of chalk, and ate
it up to make his voice soft. And then he came back, knocked at the
house-door, and cried,