"Dear me!" thought she, "can it be that my poor children that he
devoured for his evening meal are still alive?" And she sent the little
kid back to the house for a pair of shears, and needle, and thread. Then
she cut the wolf's body open, and no sooner had she made one snip than
out came the head of one of the kids, and then another snip, and then
one after the other the six little kids all jumped out alive and well,
for in his greediness the rogue had swallowed them down whole. How
delightful this was! so they comforted their dear mother and hopped
about like tailors at a wedding.

"Now fetch some good hard stones," said the mother, "and we will fill
his body with them, as he lies asleep."

And so they fetched some in all haste, and put them inside him, and the
mother sewed him up so quickly again that he was none the wiser.

When the wolf at last awoke, and got up, the stones inside him made him
feel very thirsty, and as he was going to the brook to drink, they
struck and rattled one against another. And so he cried out:

"What is this I feel inside me
    Knocking hard against my bones?
    How should such a thing betide me!
    They were kids, and now they're stones."

So he came to the brook, and stooped to drink, but the heavy stones
weighed him down, so he fell over into the water and was drowned. And
when the seven little kids saw it they came up running.

"The wolf is dead, the wolf is dead!" they cried, and taking hands, they
danced with their mother all about the place.

FAITHFUL JOHN

THERE was once an old King, who, having fallen sick, thought to himself,
"This is very likely my death-bed on which I am lying."

Then he said, "Let Faithful John be sent for."

Faithful John was his best-beloved servant, and was so called because he
had served the King faithfully all his life long. When he came near the
bed, the King said to him,

"Faithful John, I feel my end drawing near, and my only care is for my
son; he is yet of tender years, and does not always know how to shape
his conduct; and unless you promise me to instruct him in all his
actions and be a true foster-father to him, I shall not be able to close
my eyes in peace."

Then answered Faithful John, "I will never forsake him, and will serve
him faithfully, even though it should cost me my life."

And the old King said, "Then I die, being of good cheer and at peace."
And he went on to say,