"After my death, you must lead him through the whole castle, into all
the chambers, halls, and vaults, and show him the treasures that in them
lie; but the last chamber in the long gallery, in which lies hidden the
picture of the Princess of the Golden Palace, you must not show him. If
he were to see that picture, he would directly fall into so great a love
for her, that he would faint with the strength of it, and afterwards for
her sake run into great dangers; so you must guard him well."

And as Faithful John gave him his hand upon it, the old King became
still and silent, laid his head upon the pillow, and died.

When the old King was laid in the grave, Faithful John told the young
King what he had promised to his father on his death-bed, and said,

"And I will certainly hold to my promise and be faithful to you, as I
was faithful to him, even though it should cost me my life."

When the days of mourning were at an end, Faithful John said to the
Prince,

"It is now time that you should see your inheritance; I will show you
all the paternal castle."

Then he led him over all the place, upstairs and down-stairs, and showed
him all the treasures and the splendid chambers; one chamber only he did
not open, that in which the perilous picture hung. Now the picture was
so placed that when the door opened it was the first thing to be seen,
and was so wonderfully painted that it seemed to breathe and move, and
in the whole world was there nothing more lovely or more beautiful. The
young King noticed how Faithful John always passed by this one door, and
asked,

"Why do you not undo this door?"

"There is something inside that would terrify you," answered he. But the
King answered,

"I have seen the whole castle, and I will know what is in here also."
And he went forward and tried to open the door by force.

Then Faithful John called him back, and said, "I promised your father on
his death-bed that you should not see what is in that room; it might
bring great misfortune on you and me were I to break my promise."

But the young King answered, "I shall be undone if I do not go inside
that room; I shall have no peace day or night until I have seen it with
these eyes; and I will not move from this place until you have unlocked
it."