Then he gathered together in his apron some of the gold things, one of
each kind, landed, and went up to the royal castle. And when he reached
the courtyard of the castle there stood by the well a pretty maiden, who
had two golden pails in her hand, and she was drawing water with them;
and as she turned round to carry them away she saw the strange man, and
asked him who he was. He answered,

"I am a merchant," and opened his apron, and let her look within it.

"Ah, what beautiful things!" cried she, and setting down her pails, she
turned the golden toys over, and looked at them one after another: then
she said,

"The Princess must see these; she takes so much pleasure in gold things
that she will buy them all from you."

Then she took him by the hand and led him in, for she was the
chamber-maid.

When the Princess saw the golden wares she was very pleased, and said,

"All these are so finely worked that I should like to buy them of you."

But the faithful John said,

"I am only the servant of a rich merchant, and what I have here is
nothing to what my master has in the ship--the cunningest and costliest
things that ever were made of gold."

The Princess then wanted it all to be brought to her; but he said,

"That would take up many days; so great is the number of them, and so
much space would they occupy that there would not be enough room for
them in your house."

But the Princess's curiosity and fancy grew so much that at last she
said,

"Lead me to the ship; I will myself go and see your master's treasures."

Then Faithful John led her to the ship joyfully, and the King, when he
saw that her beauty was even greater than the picture had set forth,
felt his heart leap at the sight. Then she climbed up into the ship, and
the King received her. Faithful John stayed by the steersman, and gave
orders for the ship to push off, saying, "Spread all sail, that she may
fly like a bird in the air."

So the King showed her all the golden things, each separately--the
dishes, the bowls, the birds, the wild creatures, and the wonderful
beasts. Many hours were passed in looking at them all, and in her
pleasure the Princess never noticed that the ship was moving onwards.
When she had examined the last, she thanked the merchant, and prepared
to return home; but when she came to the ship's side, she saw that they
were on the high seas, far from land, and speeding on under full sail.

"Ah!" cried she, full of terror, "I am betrayed and carried off by this
merchant. Oh that I had died rather than have fallen into his power!"

But the King took hold of her hand, and said,