When the ravens had spoken thus among themselves they flew away.
Faithful John had understood it all, and from that time he remained
quiet and sad, for he thought to himself that were he to conceal what he
had heard from his master, misfortune would befall; and were he to
discover it his own life would be sacrificed. At last, however, he said
within himself,

"I will save my master, though I myself should perish!"

So when they came on land, it happened just as the ravens had foretold,
there sprang forward a splendid fox-red horse.

"Come on!" said the King, "he shall carry me to the castle," and was
going to mount, when Faithful John passed before him and mounted
quickly, drew the pistol out of the holster, and shot the horse dead.
Then the other servants of the king cried out (for they did not wish
well to Faithful John),

"How shameful to kill that beautiful animal that was to have carried the
king to his castle." But the King said,

"Hold your tongues, and let him be: he is my Faithful John; he knows
what is the good of it."

Then they went up to the castle, and there stood in the hall a dish,
and the wrought bride-shirt that lay on it seemed as if of gold and
silver. The young King went up to it and was going to put it on, but
Faithful John pushed him away, picked it up with his gloved hands, threw
it quickly on the fire, and there let it burn. The other servants began
grumbling again, and said,

"Look, he is even burning up the king's bridal shirt!" But the young
King said,

"Who knows but that there may be a good reason for it? let him be, he is
my Faithful John."

Then the wedding feast was held; and the bride led the dance; Faithful
John watched her carefully, and all at once she grew pale and fell down
as if she were dead. Then he went quickly to her, and carried her into a
chamber hard by, laid her down, and kneeling, took three drops of blood
from her right breast. Immediately she drew breath again and raised
herself up, but the young King witnessing all, and not knowing why
Faithful John had done this, grew very angry, and cried out,

"Throw him into prison!"

The next morning Faithful John was condemned to death and led to the
gallows, and as he stood there ready to suffer, he said,

"He who is about to die is permitted to speak once before his end; may I
claim that right?"

"Yes," answered the King, "it is granted to you." Then said Faithful
John,

"I have been condemned unjustly, for I have always been faithful," and
he related how he had heard on the sea voyage the talk of the ravens,
and how he had done everything in order to save his master. Then cried
the King,