After that, when she had given her sons her blessing, they went away out
into the wood. One after another kept watch, sitting on the highest oak
tree, looking towards the tower. When eleven days had passed, and
Benjamin's turn came, he saw a flag put out, but it was not white, but
blood red, to warn them that they were to die. When the brothers knew
this they became angry, saying,

"Shall we suffer death because of a girl! we swear to be revenged;
wherever we find a girl we will shed her blood."

Then they went deeper into the wood; and in the middle, where it was
darkest, they found a little enchanted house, standing empty. Then they
said,

"Here will we dwell; and you, Benjamin, the youngest and weakest, shall
stay at home and keep house; we others will go abroad and purvey food."

Then they went into the wood and caught hares, wild roes, birds, and
pigeons, and whatever else is good to eat, and brought them to Benjamin
for him to cook and make ready to satisfy their hunger. So they lived
together in the little house for ten years, and the time did not seem
long.

heart and a beautiful face, and a golden star on her forehead. Once when
there was a great wash she saw among the clothes twelve shirts, and she
asked her mother,

"Whose are these twelve shirts? they are too small to be my father's."
Then the mother answered with a sore heart,

"Dear child, they belong to your twelve brothers." The little girl said,

"Where are my twelve brothers? I have never heard of them." And her
mother answered,

"God only knows where they are wandering about in the world." Then she
led the little girl to the secret room and unlocked it, and showed her
the twelve coffins with the shavings and the little pillows.

"These coffins," said she, "were intended for your twelve brothers, but
they went away far from home when you were born," and she related how
everything had come to pass. Then said the little girl,

"Dear mother, do not weep, I will go and seek my brothers."

So she took the twelve shirts and went far and wide in the great forest.
The day sped on, and in the evening she came to the enchanted house. She
went in and found a youth, who asked,

"Whence do you come, and what do you want?" and he marvelled at her
beauty, her royal garments, and the star on her forehead. Then she
answered,

"I am a king's daughter, and I seek my twelve brothers, and I will go
everywhere under the blue sky until I find them." And she showed him the
twelve shirts which belonged to them. Then Benjamin saw that it must be
his sister, and said,

"I am Benjamin, your youngest brother."

And she began weeping for joy, and Benjamin also, and they kissed and
cheered each other with great love. After a while he said,