Early in the morning, when it was beginning to grow light, and everybody
was still asleep, the cock waked up the hen, fetched the egg, and made a
hole in it, and they ate it up between them, and put the eggshell on the
hearth. Then they went up to the needle, who was still sleeping, picked
him up by his head, and stuck him in the landlord's chair-cushion, and
having also placed the pin in his towel, off they flew over the hills
and far away. The duck, who had chosen to sleep in the open air, and had
remained in the yard, heard the rustling of their wings, and, waking up,
looked about till she found a brook, down which she swam a good deal
faster than she had drawn the carriage.

A few hours later the landlord woke, and, leaving his feather-bed, began
washing himself; but when he took the towel to dry himself he drew the
pin all across his face, and made a red streak from ear to ear. Then he
went into the kitchen to light his pipe, but when he stooped towards the
hearth to take up a coal the eggshell flew in his eyes.

"Everything goes wrong this morning," said he, and let himself drop,
full of vexation, into his grandfather's chair; but up he jumped in a
moment, crying, "Oh dear!" for the needle had gone into him.

Now he became angry, and had his suspicions of the guests who had
arrived so late the evening before; and when he looked round for them
they were nowhere to be seen.

Then he swore that he would never more harbour such vagabonds, that
consumed so much, paid nothing, and played such nasty tricks into the
bargain.

THE BROTHER AND SISTER

THE brother took his sister's hand and said to her,

"Since our mother died we have had no good days; our stepmother beats us
every day, and if we go near her she kicks us away; we have nothing to
eat but hard crusts of bread left over; the dog under the table fares
better; he gets a good piece every now and then. If our mother only
knew, how she would pity us! Come, let us go together out into the wide
world!"

So they went, and journeyed the whole day through fields and meadows and
stony places, and if it rained the sister said,

"The skies and we are weeping together."

In the evening they came to a great wood, and they were so weary with
hunger and their long journey, that they climbed up into a high tree and
fell asleep.

The next morning, when they awoke, the sun was high in heaven, and shone
brightly through the leaves. Then said the brother,