"Sister, I am thirsty; if I only knew where to find a brook, that I
might go and drink! I almost think that I hear one rushing." So the
brother got down and led his sister by the hand, and they went to seek
the brook. But their wicked stepmother was a witch, and had known quite
well that the two children had run away, and had sneaked after them, as
only witches can, and had laid a spell on all the brooks in the forest.
So when they found a little stream flowing smoothly over its pebbles,
the brother was going to drink of it; but the sister heard how it said
in its rushing,

"He a tiger will be who drinks of me,
    Who drinks of me a tiger will be!"

Then the sister cried,

"Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a wild beast, and
will tear me in pieces."

So the brother refrained from drinking, though his thirst was great, and
he said he would wait till he came to the next brook. When they came to
a second brook the sister heard it say,

"He a wolf will be who drinks of me,
    Who drinks of me a wolf will be!"

Then the sister cried,

"Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will be turned into a wolf,
and will eat me up!"

So the brother refrained from drinking, and said,

"I will wait until we come to the next brook, and then I must drink,
whatever you say; my thirst is so great."

And when they came to the third brook the sister heard how in its
rushing it said,

"Who drinks of me a fawn will be,
    He a fawn will be who drinks of me!"

Then the sister said,

"O my brother, I pray drink not, or you will be turned into a fawn, and
run away far from me."

But he had already kneeled by the side of the brook and stooped and
drunk of the water, and as the first drops passed his lips he became a
fawn.

And the sister wept over her poor lost brother, and the fawn wept also,
and stayed sadly beside her. At last the maiden said,

"Be comforted, dear fawn, indeed I will never leave you."

Then she untied her golden girdle and bound it round the fawn's neck,
and went and gathered rushes to make a soft cord, which she fastened to
him; and then she led him on, and they went deeper into the forest. And
when they had gone a long long way, they came at last to a little
house, and the maiden looked inside, and as it was empty she thought,

"We might as well live here."