And she fetched leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the fawn, and
every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for
herself, and fresh grass for the fawn, who ate out of her hand with joy,
frolicking round her. At night, when the sister was tired, and had said
her prayers, she laid her head on the fawn's back, which served her for
a pillow, and softly fell asleep. And if only the brother could have got
back his own shape again, it would have been a charming life. So they
lived a long while in the wilderness alone.

Now it happened that the King of that country held a great hunt in the
forest. The blowing of the horns, the barking of the dogs, and the lusty
shouts of the huntsmen sounded through the wood, and the fawn heard them
and was eager to be among them.

"Oh," said he to his sister, "do let me go to the hunt; I cannot stay
behind any longer," and begged so long that at last she consented.

"But mind," said she to him, "come back to me at night. I must lock my
door against the wild hunters, so, in order that I may know you, you
must knock and say, 'Little sister, let me in,' and unless I hear that I
shall not unlock the door."

Then the fawn sprang out, and felt glad and merry in the open air. The
King and his huntsmen saw the beautiful animal, and began at once to
pursue him, but they could not come within reach of him, for when they
thought they were certain of him he sprang away over the bushes and
disappeared. As soon as it was dark he went back to the little house,
knocked at the door, and said,

"Little sister, let me in."

Then the door was opened to him, and he went in, and rested the whole
night long on his soft bed. The next morning the hunt began anew, and
when the fawn heard the hunting-horns and the tally-ho of the huntsmen
he could rest no longer, and said,

"Little sister, let me out, I must go." The sister opened the door and
said,

"Now, mind you must come back at night and say the same words."

When the King and his hunters saw the fawn with the golden collar again,
they chased him closely, but he was too nimble and swift for them. This
lasted the whole day, and at last the hunters surrounded him, and one of
them wounded his foot a little, so that he was obliged to limp and to go
slowly. Then a hunter slipped after him to the little house, and heard
how he called out, "Little sister, let me in," and saw the door open and
shut again after him directly. The hunter noticed all this carefully,
went to the King, and told him all he had seen and heard. Then said the
King,

"To-morrow we will hunt again."