But the sister was very terrified when she saw that her fawn was
wounded. She washed his foot, laid cooling leaves round it, and said,
"Lie down on your bed, dear fawn, and rest, that you may be soon well."
The wound was very slight, so that the fawn felt nothing of it the next
morning. And when he heard the noise of the hunting outside, he said,

"I cannot stay in, I must go after them; I shall not be taken easily
again!" The sister began to weep, and said,

"I know you will be killed, and I left alone here in the forest, and
forsaken of everybody. I cannot let you go!"

"Then I shall die here with longing," answered the fawn; "when I hear
the sound of the horn I feel as if I should leap out of my skin."

Then the sister, seeing there was no help for it, unlocked the door with
a heavy heart, and the fawn bounded away into the forest, well and
merry. When the King saw him, he said to his hunters,

"Now, follow him up all day long till the night comes, and see that you
do him no hurt."

So as soon as the sun had gone down, the King said to the huntsmen:
"Now, come and show me the little house in the wood."

And when he got to the door he knocked at it, and cried,

"Little sister, let me in!"

Then the door opened, and the King went in, and there stood a maiden
more beautiful than any he had seen before. The maiden shrieked out
when she saw, instead of the fawn, a man standing there with a gold
crown on his head. But the King looked kindly on her, took her by the
hand, and said,

"Will you go with me to my castle, and be my dear wife?"

"Oh yes," answered the maiden, "but the fawn must come too. I could not
leave him." And the King said,

"He shall remain with you as long as you live, and shall lack nothing."
Then the fawn came bounding in, and the sister tied the cord of rushes
to him, and led him by her own hand out of the little house.

The King put the beautiful maiden on his horse, and carried her to his
castle, where the wedding was held with great pomp; so she became lady
Queen, and they lived together happily for a long while; the fawn was
well tended and cherished, and he gambolled about the castle garden.