Then said the King,

"You have spoken your own sentence;" and he ordered a cask to be
fetched, and the old woman and her daughter were put into it, and the
top hammered down, and the cask was rolled down the hill into the river.

THE THREE SPINSTERS

THERE was once a girl who was lazy and would not spin, and her mother
could not persuade her to it, do what she would. At last the mother
became angry and out of patience, and gave her a good beating, so that
she cried out loudly. At that moment the Queen was going by; as she
heard the crying, she stopped; and, going into the house, she asked the
mother why she was beating her daughter, so that every one outside in
the street could hear her cries.

The woman was ashamed to tell of her daughter's laziness, so she said,

"I cannot stop her from spinning; she is for ever at it, and I am poor
and cannot furnish her with flax enough."

Then the Queen answered,

"I like nothing better than the sound of the spinning-wheel, and always
feel happy when I hear its humming; let me take your daughter with me to
the castle--I have plenty of flax, she shall spin there to her heart's
content."

The mother was only too glad of the offer, and the Queen took the girl
with her. When they reached the castle the Queen showed her three rooms
which were filled with the finest flax as full as they could hold.

"Now you can spin me this flax," said she, "and when you can show it me
all done you shall have my eldest son for bridegroom; you may be poor,
but I make nothing of that--your industry is dowry enough."

The girl was inwardly terrified, for she could not have spun the flax,
even if she were to live to be a hundred years old, and were to sit
spinning every day of her life from morning to evening. And when she
found herself alone she began to weep, and sat so for three days without
putting her hand to it. On the third day the Queen came, and when she
saw that nothing had been done of the spinning she was much surprised;
but the girl excused herself by saying that she had not been able to
begin because of the distress she was in at leaving her home and her
mother. The excuse contented the Queen, who said, however, as she went
away,

"To-morrow you must begin to work."