When the girl found herself alone again she could not tell how to help
herself or what to do, and in her perplexity she went and gazed out of
the window. There she saw three women passing by, and the first of them
had a broad flat foot, the second had a big under-lip that hung down
over her chin, and the third had a remarkably broad thumb. They all of
them stopped in front of the window, and called out to know what it was
that the girl wanted. She told them all her need, and they promised her
their help, and said,

"Then will you invite us to your wedding, and not be ashamed of us, and
call us your cousins, and let us sit at your table; if you will promise
this, we will finish off your flax-spinning in a very short time."

"With all my heart," answered the girl; "only come in now, and begin at
once."

Then these same women came in, and she cleared a space in the first room
for them to sit and carry on their spinning. The first one drew out the
thread and moved the treddle that turned the wheel, the second moistened
the thread, the third twisted it, and rapped with her finger on the
table, and as often as she rapped a heap of yarn fell to the ground, and
it was most beautifully spun. But the girl hid the three spinsters out
of the Queen's sight, and only showed her, as often as she came, the
heaps of well-spun yarn; and there was no end to the praises she
received. When the first room was empty they went on to the second, and
then to the third, so that at last all was finished. Then the three
women took their leave, saying to the girl,

"Do not forget what you have promised, and it will be all the better for
you."

So when the girl took the Queen and showed her the empty rooms, and the
great heaps of yarn, the wedding was at once arranged, and the
bridegroom rejoiced that he should have so clever and diligent a wife,
and praised her exceedingly.

"I have three cousins," said the girl, "and as they have shown me a
great deal of kindness, I would not wish to forget them in my good
fortune; may I be allowed to invite them to the wedding, and to ask them
to sit at the table with us?"

The Queen and the bridegroom said at once,

"There is no reason against it."

So when the feast began in came the three spinsters in strange guise,
and the bride said,

"Dear cousins, you are welcome."

"Oh," said the bridegroom, "how come you to have such dreadfully ugly
relations?"

And then he went up to the first spinster and said,

"How is it that you have such a broad flat foot?"

"With treading," answered she, "with treading."

Then he went up to the second and said,