Grethel carried the bread under her apron, for Hansel had his pockets
full of the flints. Then they set off all together on their way to the
forest. When they had gone a little way Hansel stood still and looked
back towards the house, and this he did again and again, till his father
said to him,

"Hansel, what are you looking at? take care not to forget your legs."

"O father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my little white kitten, who is
sitting up on the roof to bid me good-bye."

"You young fool," said the woman, "that is not your kitten, but the
sunshine on the chimney-pot."

Of course Hansel had not been looking at his kitten, but had been taking
every now and then a flint from his pocket and dropping it on the road.

When they reached the middle of the forest the father told the children
to collect wood to make a fire to keep them warm; and Hansel and Grethel
gathered brushwood enough for a little mountain; and it was set on fire,
and when the flame was burning quite high the wife said,

"Now lie down by the fire and rest yourselves, you children, and we will
go and cut wood; and when we are ready we will come and fetch you."

So Hansel and Grethel sat by the fire, and at noon they each ate their
pieces of bread. They thought their father was in the wood all the time,
as they seemed to hear the strokes of the axe: but really it was only a
dry branch hanging to a withered tree that the wind moved to and fro. So
when they had stayed there a long time their eyelids closed with
weariness, and they fell fast asleep. When at last they woke it was
night, and Grethel began to cry, and said,

"How shall we ever get out of this wood?" But Hansel comforted her,
saying,

"Wait a little while longer, until the moon rises, and then we can
easily find the way home."

And when the full moon got up Hansel took his little sister by the hand,
and followed the way where the flint stones shone like silver, and
showed them the road. They walked on the whole night through, and at the
break of day they came to their father's house. They knocked at the
door, and when the wife opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Grethel
she said,

"You naughty children, why did you sleep so long in the wood? we thought
you were never coming home again!"

But the father was glad, for it had gone to his heart to leave them both
in the woods alone.

Not very long after that there was again great scarcity in those parts,
and the children heard their mother say at night in bed to their father,