"Everything is finished up; we have only half a loaf, and after that the
tale comes to an end. The children must be off; we will take them
farther into the wood this time, so that they shall not be able to find
the way back again; there is no other way to manage."

The man felt sad at heart, and he thought,

"It would better to share one's last morsel with one's children."

But the wife would listen to nothing that he said, but scolded and
reproached him. He who says A must say B too, and when a man has given
in once he has to do it a second time.

But the children were not asleep, and had heard all the talk. When the
parents had gone to sleep Hansel got up to go out and get more flint
stones, as he did before, but the wife had locked the door, and Hansel
could not get out; but he comforted his little sister, and said,

"Don't cry, Grethel, and go to sleep quietly, and God will help us."

Early the next morning the wife came and pulled the children out of bed.
She gave them each a little piece of bread--less than before; and on the
way to the wood Hansel crumbled the bread in his pocket, and often
stopped to throw a crumb on the ground.

"Hansel, what are you stopping behind and staring for?" said the father.

"I am looking at my little pigeon sitting on the roof, to say good-bye
to me," answered Hansel.

"You fool," said the wife, "that is no pigeon, but the morning sun
shining on the chimney pots."

Hansel went on as before, and strewed bread crumbs all along the road.

The woman led the children far into the wood, where they had never been
before in all their lives. And again there was a large fire made, and
the mother said,

"Sit still there, you children, and when you are tired you can go to
sleep; we are going into the forest to cut wood, and in the evening,
when we are ready to go home we will come and fetch you."

So when noon came Grethel shared her bread with Hansel, who had strewed
his along the road. Then they went to sleep, and the evening passed, and
no one came for the poor children. When they awoke it was dark night,
and Hansel comforted his little sister, and said,

"Wait a little, Grethel, until the moon gets up, then we shall be able
to see the way home by the crumbs of bread that I have scattered along
it."