So when the moon rose they got up, but they could find no crumbs of
bread, for the birds of the woods and of the fields had come and picked
them up. Hansel thought they might find the way all the same, but they
could not. They went on all that night, and the next day from the
morning until the evening, but they could not find the way out of the
wood, and they were very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but the
few berries they could pick up. And when they were so tired that they
could no longer drag themselves along, they lay down under a tree and
fell asleep.

It was now the third morning since they had left their father's house.
They were always trying to get back to it, but instead of that they only
found themselves farther in the wood, and if help had not soon come they
would have been starved. About noon they saw a pretty snow-white bird
sitting on a bough, and singing so sweetly that they stopped to listen.
And when he had finished the bird spread his wings and flew before them,
and they followed after him until they came to a little house, and the
bird perched on the roof, and when they came nearer they saw that the
house was built of bread, and roofed with cakes; and the window was of
transparent sugar.

"We will have some of this," said Hansel, "and make a fine meal. I will
eat a piece of the roof, Grethel, and you can have some of the
window--that will taste sweet."

So Hansel reached up and broke off a bit of the roof, just to see how it
tasted, and Grethel stood by the window and gnawed at it. Then they
heard a thin voice call out from inside,

"Nibble, nibble, like a mouse,
    Who is nibbling at my house?"

And the children answered,

"Never mind,
    It is the wind."

And they went on eating, never disturbing themselves. Hansel, who found
that the roof tasted very nice, took down a great piece of it, and
Grethel pulled out a large round window-pane, and sat her down and began
upon it. Then the door opened, and an aged woman came out, leaning upon
a crutch. Hansel and Grethel felt very frightened, and let fall what
they had in their hands. The old woman, however, nodded her head, and
said,

"Ah, my dear children, how come you here? you must come indoors and stay
with me, you will be no trouble."

So she took them each by the hand, and led them into her little house.
And there they found a good meal laid out, of milk and pancakes, with
sugar, apples, and nuts. After that she showed them two little white
beds, and Hansel and Grethel laid themselves down on them, and thought
they were in heaven.