The old woman, although her behaviour was so kind, was a wicked witch,
who lay in wait for children, and had built the little house on purpose
to entice them. When they were once inside she used to kill them, cook
them, and eat them, and then it was a feast-day with her. The witch's
eyes were red, and she could not see very far, but she had a keen scent,
like the beasts, and knew very well when human creatures were near. When
she knew that Hansel and Grethel were coming, she gave a spiteful laugh,
and said triumphantly,

"I have them, and they shall not escape me!"

Early in the morning, before the children were awake, she got up to look
at them, and as they lay sleeping so peacefully with round rosy cheeks,
she said to herself,

"What a fine feast I shall have!"

Then she grasped Hansel with her withered hand, and led him into a
little stable, and shut him up behind a grating; and call and scream as
he might, it was no good. Then she went back to Grethel and shook her,
crying,

"Get up, lazy bones; fetch water, and cook something nice for your
brother; he is outside in the stable, and must be fattened up. And when
he is fat enough I will eat him."

Grethel began to weep bitterly, but it was of no use, she had to do what
the wicked witch bade her.

And so the best kind of victuals was cooked for poor Hansel, while
Grethel got nothing but crab-shells. Each morning the old woman visited
the little stable, and cried,

"Hansel, stretch out your finger, that I may tell if you will soon be
fat enough."

Hansel, however, used to hold out a little bone, and the old woman, who
had weak eyes, could not see what it was, and supposing it to be
Hansel's finger, wondered very much that it was not getting fatter. When
four weeks had passed and Hansel seemed to remain so thin, she lost
patience and could wait no longer.

"Now then, Grethel," cried she to the little girl; "be quick and draw
water; be Hansel fat or be he lean, to-morrow I must kill and cook
him."

Oh what a grief for the poor little sister to have to fetch water, and
how the tears flowed down over her cheeks!

"Dear God, pray help us!" cried she; "if we had been devoured by wild
beasts in the wood at least we should have died together."

"Spare me your lamentations," said the old woman; "they are of no
avail."

Early next morning Grethel had to get up, make the fire, and fill the
kettle.

"First we will do the baking," said the old woman; "I have heated the
oven already, and kneaded the dough."

She pushed poor Grethel towards the oven, out of which the flames were
already shining.

"Creep in," said the witch, "and see if it is properly hot, so that the
bread may be baked."