And Grethel once in, she meant to shut the door upon her and let her be
baked, and then she would have eaten her. But Grethel perceived her
intention, and said,

"I don't know how to do it: how shall I get in?"

"Stupid goose," said the old woman, "the opening is big enough, do you
see? I could get in myself!" and she stooped down and put her head in
the oven's mouth. Then Grethel gave her a push, so that she went in
farther, and she shut the iron door upon her, and put up the bar. Oh how
frightfully she howled! but Grethel ran away, and left the wicked witch
to burn miserably. Grethel went straight to Hansel, opened the
stable-door, and cried,

"Hansel, we are free! the old witch is dead!"

Then out flew Hansel like a bird from its cage as soon as the door is
opened. How rejoiced they both were! how they fell each on the other's
neck! and danced about, and kissed each other! And as they had nothing
more to fear they went over all the old witch's house, and in every
corner there stood chests of pearls and precious stones.

"This is something better than flint stones," said Hansel, as he filled
his pockets, and Grethel, thinking she also would like to carry
something home with her, filled her apron full.

"Now, away we go," said Hansel;--"if we only can get out of the witch's
wood."

When they had journeyed a few hours they came to a great piece of water.

"We can never get across this," said Hansel, "I see no stepping-stones
and no bridge."

"And there is no boat either," said Grethel; "but here comes a white
duck; if I ask her she will help us over." So she cried,

"Duck, duck, here we stand,
    Hansel and Grethel, on the land,
    Stepping-stones and bridge we lack,
    Carry us over on your nice white back."

And the duck came accordingly, and Hansel got upon her and told his
sister to come too.

"No," answered Grethel, "that would be too hard upon the duck; we can go
separately, one after the other."

And that was how it was managed, and after that they went on happily,
until they came to the wood, and the way grew more and more familiar,
till at last they saw in the distance their father's house. Then they
ran till they came up to it, rushed in at the door, and fell on their
father's neck. The man had not had a quiet hour since he left his
children in the wood; but the wife was dead. And when Grethel opened her
apron the pearls and precious stones were scattered all over the room,
and Hansel took one handful after another out of his pocket. Then was
all care at an end, and they lived in great joy together.

THE WHITE SNAKE