A LONG time ago there lived a King whose wisdom was noised abroad in all
the country. Nothing remained long unknown to him, and it was as if the
knowledge of hidden things was brought to him in the air. However, he
had one curious custom. Every day at dinner, after the table had been
cleared and every one gone away, a trusty servant had to bring in one
other dish. But it was covered up, and the servant himself did not know
what was in it, and no one else knew, for the King waited until he was
quite alone before he uncovered it. This had gone on a long time, but at
last there came a day when the servant could restrain his curiosity no
longer, but as he was carrying the dish away he took it into his own
room. As soon as he had fastened the door securely, he lifted the cover,
and there he saw a white snake lying on the dish. After seeing it he
could not resist the desire to taste it, and so he cut off a small piece
and put it in his mouth. As soon as it touched his tongue he heard
outside his window a strange chorus of delicate voices. He went and
listened, and found that it was the sparrows talking together, and
telling each other all they had seen in the fields and woods. The virtue
of the snake had given him power to understand the speech of animals.

Now it happened one day that the Queen lost her most splendid ring, and
suspicion fell upon the trusty servant, who had the general
superintendence, and he was accused of stealing it. The King summoned
him to his presence, and after many reproaches told him that if by the
next day he was not able to name the thief he should be considered
guilty, and punished. It was in vain that he protested his innocence; he
could get no better sentence. In his uneasiness and anxiety he went out
into the courtyard, and began to consider what he could do in so great a
necessity. There sat the ducks by the running water and rested
themselves, and plumed themselves with their flat bills, and held a
comfortable chat. The servant stayed where he was and listened to them.
They told how they had waddled about all yesterday morning and found
good food; and then one of them said pitifully,

"Something lies very heavy in my craw,--it is the ring that was lying
under the Queen's window; I swallowed it down in too great a hurry."

Then the servant seized her by the neck, took her into the kitchen, and
said to the cook,

"Kill this one, she is quite ready for cooking."

"Yes," said the cook, weighing it in her hand; "there will be no trouble
of fattening this one--it has been ready ever so long."