She then slit up its neck, and when it was opened the Queen's ring was
found in its craw. The servant could now clearly prove his innocence,
and in order to make up for the injustice he had suffered the King
permitted him to ask some favour for himself, and also promised him the
place of greatest honour in the royal household.

But the servant refused it, and only asked for a horse and money for
travelling, for he had a fancy to see the world, and look about him a
little. So his request was granted, and he set out on his way; and one
day he came to a pool of water, by which he saw three fishes who had got
entangled in the rushes, and were panting for water. Although fishes are
usually considered dumb creatures, he understood very well their lament
that they were to perish so miserably; and as he had a compassionate
heart he dismounted from his horse, and put the three fishes back again
into the water. They quivered all over with joy, stretched out their
heads, and called out to him,

"We will remember and reward thee, because thou hast delivered us." He
rode on, and after a while he heard a small voice come up from the sand
underneath his horse's feet. He listened, and understood how an ant-king
was complaining,

"If only these men would keep off, with their great awkward beasts! here
comes this stupid horse treading down my people with his hard hoofs!"

The man then turned his horse to the side-path, and the ant-king called
out to him,

"We will remember and reward thee!"

The path led him through a wood, and there he saw a father-raven and
mother-raven standing by their nest and throwing their young ones out.

"Off with you! young gallows-birds!" cried they; "we cannot stuff you
any more; you are big enough to fend for yourselves!" The poor young
ravens lay on the ground, fluttering, and beating the air with their
pinions, and crying,

"We are poor helpless things, we cannot fend for ourselves, we cannot
even fly! we can only die of hunger!"

Then the kind young man dismounted, killed his horse with his dagger,
and left it to the young ravens for food. They came hopping up, feasted
away at it, and cried,

"We will remember and reward thee!"

So now he had to use his own legs, and when he had gone a long way he
came to a great town. There was much noise and thronging in the streets,
and there came a man on a horse, who proclaimed,

"That the King's daughter seeks a husband, but he who wishes to marry
her must perform a difficult task, and if he cannot carry it through
successfully, he must lose his life."