Many had already tried, but had lost their lives, in vain. The young
man, when he saw the King's daughter, was so dazzled by her great
beauty, that he forgot all danger, went to the King and offered himself
as a wooer.

Then he was led to the sea-side, and a gold ring was thrown into the
water before his eyes. Then the King told him that he must fetch the
ring up again from the bottom of the sea, saying,

"If you come back without it, you shall be put under the waves again and
again until you are drowned."

Every one pitied the handsome young man, but they went, and left him
alone by the sea. As he was standing on the shore and thinking of what
he should do, there came three fishes swimming by, none other than those
he had set free. The middle one had a mussel in his mouth, and he laid
it on the strand at the young man's feet; and when he took it up and
opened it there was the gold ring inside! Full of joy he carried it to
the King, and expected the promised reward; but the King's daughter,
proud of her high birth, despised him, and set him another task to
perform. She went out into the garden, and strewed about over the grass
ten sacks full of millet seed.

"By the time the sun rises in the morning you must have picked up all
these," she said, "and not a grain must be wanting."

The young man sat down in the garden and considered how it was possible
to do this task, but he could contrive nothing, and stayed there,
feeling very sorrowful, and expecting to be led to death at break of
day. But when the first beams of the sun fell on the garden he saw that
the ten sacks were all filled, standing one by the other, and not even a
grain was missing. The ant-king had arrived in the night with his
thousands of ants, and the grateful creatures had picked up all the
millet seed, and filled the sacks with great industry. The King's
daughter came herself into the garden and saw with astonishment that the
young man had performed all that had been given him to do. But she could
not let her proud heart melt, but said,

"Although he has completed the two tasks, he shall not be my bridegroom
unless he brings me an apple from the tree of life."