The young man did not know where the tree of life was to be found, but
he set out and went on and on, as long as his legs could carry him, but
he had no hope of finding it. When he had gone through three kingdoms he
came one evening to a wood, and seated himself under a tree to go to
sleep; but he heard a rustling in the boughs, and a golden apple fell
into his hand. Immediately three ravens flew towards him, perched on his
knee, and said,

"We are the three young ravens that you delivered from starving; when we
grew big, and heard that you were seeking the golden apple, we flew
over the sea to the end of the earth, where the tree of life stands, and
we fetched the apple."

Full of joy the young man set off on his way home, and brought the
golden apple to the King's beautiful daughter, who was without any
further excuse.

So they divided the apple of life, and ate it together; and their hearts
were filled with love, and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a
great age.

The STRAW, The COAL, and the BEAN

THERE lived in a certain village a poor old woman who had collected a
mess of beans, and was going to cook them. So she made a fire on her
hearth, and, in order to make it burn better, she put in a handful of
straw. When the beans began to bubble in the pot, one of them fell out
and lay, never noticed, near a straw which was already there; soon a
red-hot coal jumped out of the fire and joined the pair. The straw began
first, and said,

"Dear friends, how do you come here?" The coal answered,

"I jumped out of the fire by great good luck, or I should certainly have
met with my death. I should have been burned to ashes." The bean said,

"I too have come out of it with a whole skin, but if the old woman had
kept me in the pot I should have been cooked into a soft mass like my
comrades."

"Nor should I have met with a better fate," said the straw; "the old
woman has turned my brothers into fire and smoke, sixty of them she took
up at once and deprived of life. Very luckily I managed to slip through
her fingers."

"What had we better do now?" said the coal.

"I think," answered the bean, "that as we have been so lucky as to
escape with our lives, we will join in good fellowship together, and,
lest any more bad fortune should happen to us here, we will go abroad
into foreign lands."

The proposal pleased the two others, and forthwith they started on their
travels. Soon they came to a little brook, and as there was no
stepping-stone, and no bridge, they could not tell how they were to get
to the other side. The straw was struck with a good idea, and said,