"I will lay myself across, so that you can go over me as if I were a
bridge!"

So the straw stretched himself from one bank to the other, and the coal,
who was of an ardent nature, quickly trotted up to go over the new-made
bridge. When, however, she reached the middle, and heard the water
rushing past beneath her, she was struck with terror, and stopped, and
could get no farther. So the straw began to get burnt, broke in two
pieces, and fell in the brook, and the coal slipped down, hissing as she
touched the water, and gave up the ghost. The bean, who had prudently
remained behind on the bank, could not help laughing at the sight, and
not being able to contain herself, went on laughing so excessively that
she burst. And now would she certainly have been undone for ever, if a
tailor on his travels had not by good luck stopped to rest himself by
the brook. As he had a compassionate heart, he took out needle and
thread and stitched her together again. The bean thanked him in the most
elegant manner, but as he had sewn her up with black stitches, all beans
since then have a black seam.

The FISHERMAN and his WIFE

THERE was once a fisherman and his wife who lived together in a hovel by
the sea-shore, and the fisherman went out every day with his hook and
line to catch fish, and he angled and angled.

One day he was sitting with his rod and looking into the clear water,
and he sat and sat.

At last down went the line to the bottom of the water, and when he drew
it up he found a great flounder on the hook. And the flounder said to
him,

"Fisherman, listen to me; let me go, I am not a real fish but an
enchanted prince. What good shall I be to you if you land me? I shall
not taste well; so put me back into the water again, and let me swim
away."

"Well," said the fisherman, "no need of so many words about the matter,
as you can speak I had much rather let you swim away."

Then he put him back into the clear water, and the flounder sank to the
bottom, leaving a long streak of blood behind him. Then the fisherman
got up and went home to his wife in their hovel.

"Well, husband," said the wife, "have you caught nothing to-day?"

"No," said the man--"that is, I did catch a flounder, but as he said he
was an enchanted prince, I let him go again."

"Then, did you wish for nothing?" said the wife.

"No," said the man; "what should I wish for?"