"O man, O man!--if man you be,
    Or flounder, flounder, in the sea--
    Such a tiresome wife I've got,
    For she wants what I do not."

"What is it now?" said the fish.

"Oh dear!" said the man, "my wife wants to be emperor."

"Go home with you," said the fish, "she is emperor already."

So the man went home, and found the castle adorned with polished marble
and alabaster figures, and golden gates. The troops were being
marshalled before the door, and they were blowing trumpets and beating
drums and cymbals; and when he entered he saw barons and earls and dukes
waiting about like servants; and the doors were of bright gold. And he
saw his wife sitting upon a throne made of one entire piece of gold, and
it was about two miles high; and she had a great golden crown on, which
was about three yards high, set with brilliants and carbuncles; and in
one hand she held the sceptre, and in the other the globe; and on both
sides of her stood pages in two rows, all arranged according to their
size, from the most enormous giant of two miles high to the tiniest
dwarf of the size of my little finger; and before her stood earls and
dukes in crowds. So the man went up to her and said,

"Well, wife, so now you are emperor."

"Yes," said she, "now I am emperor."

Then he went and sat down and had a good look at her, and then he said,

"Well now, wife, there is nothing left to be, now you are emperor."

"What are you talking about, husband?" said she; "I am emperor, and next
I will be pope! so go and tell the fish so."

"Oh dear!" said the man, "what is it that you don't want? You can never
become pope; there is but one pope in Christendom, and the fish can't
possibly do it."

"Husband," said she, "no more words about it; I must and will be pope;
so go along to the fish."

"Now, wife," said the man, "how can I ask him such a thing? it is too
bad--it is asking a little too much; and, besides, he could not do it."

"What rubbish!" said the wife; "if he could make me emperor he can make
me pope. Go along and ask him; I am emperor, and you are only my
husband, so go you must."

So he went, feeling very frightened, and he shivered and shook, and his
knees trembled; and there arose a great wind, and the clouds flew by,
and it grew very dark, and the sea rose mountains high, and the ships
were tossed about, and the sky was partly blue in the middle, but at the
sides very dark and red, as in a great tempest. And he felt very
desponding, and stood trembling and said,

"O man, O man!--if man you be,
    Or flounder, flounder, in the sea--
    Such a tiresome wife I've got,
    For she wants what I do not."