"Well, what now?" said the fish.

"Oh dear!" said the man, "she wants to be pope."

"Go home with you, she is pope already," said the fish.

So he went home, and he found himself before a great church, with
palaces all round. He had to make his way through a crowd of people; and
when he got inside he found the place lighted up with thousands and
thousands of lights; and his wife was clothed in a golden garment, and
sat upon a very high throne, and had three golden crowns on, all in the
greatest priestly pomp; and on both sides of her there stood two rows of
lights of all sizes--from the size of the longest tower to the smallest
rushlight, and all the emperors and kings were kneeling before her and
kissing her foot.

"Well, wife," said the man, and sat and stared at her, "so you are
pope."

"Yes," said she, "now I am pope!"

And he went on gazing at her till he felt dazzled, as if he were sitting
in the sun. And after a little time he said,

"Well, now, wife, what is there left to be, now you are pope?"

And she sat up very stiff and straight, and said nothing.

And he said again, "Well, wife, I hope you are contented at last with
being pope; you can be nothing more."

"We will see about that," said the wife. With that they both went to
bed; but she was as far as ever from being contented, and she could not
get to sleep for thinking of what she should like to be next.

The husband, however, slept as fast as a top after his busy day; but the
wife tossed and turned from side to side the whole night through,
thinking all the while what she could be next, but nothing would occur
to her; and when she saw the red dawn she slipped off the bed, and sat
before the window to see the sun rise, and as it came up she said,

"Ah, I have it! what if I should make the sun and moon to
rise--husband!" she cried, and stuck her elbow in his ribs, "wake up,
and go to your fish, and tell him I want power over the sun and moon."

The man was so fast asleep that when he started up he fell out of bed.
Then he shook himself together, and opened his eyes and said,

"Oh,--wife, what did you say?"

"Husband," said she, "if I cannot get the power of making the sun and
moon rise when I want them, I shall never have another quiet hour. Go to
the fish and tell him so."

"O wife!" said the man, and fell on his knees to her, "the fish can
really not do that for you. I grant you he could make you emperor and
pope; do be contented with that, I beg of you."

And she became wild with impatience, and screamed out,

"I can wait no longer, go at once!"