The King felt sorry to lose all his faithful servants because of one
man, and he wished that he had never seen him, and would willingly get
rid of him if he might. But he did not dare to dismiss the little tailor
for fear he should kill all the King's people, and place himself upon
the throne. He thought a long while about it, and at last made up his
mind what to do. He sent for the little tailor, and told him that as he
was so great a warrior he had a proposal to make to him. He told him
fear of his life. But that if the tailor should overcome and slay both
these giants the King would give him his only daughter in marriage, and
half his kingdom as dowry, and that a hundred horsemen should go with
him to give him assistance.

"That would be something for a man like me!" thought the little tailor,
"a beautiful princess and half a kingdom are not to be had every day,"
and he said to the King,

"Oh yes, I can soon overcome the giants, and yet have no need of the
hundred horsemen; he who can kill seven at one blow has no need to be
afraid of two."

So the little tailor set out, and the hunched horsemen followed him.
When he came to the border of the wood he said to his escort,

"Stay here while I go to attack the giants."

Then he sprang into the wood, and looked about him right and left. After
a while he caught sight of the two giants; they were lying down under a
tree asleep, and snoring so that all the branches shook. The little
tailor, all alive, filled both his pockets with stones and climbed up
into the tree, and made his way to an overhanging bough, so that he
could seat himself just above the sleepers; and from there he let one
stone after another fall on the chest of one of the giants. For a long
time the giant was quite unaware of this, but at last he waked up and
pushed his comrade, and said,

"What are you hitting me for?"

"You are dreaming," said the other, "I am not touching you." And they
composed themselves again to sleep, and the tailor let fall a stone on
the other giant.

"What can that be?" cried he, "what are you casting at me?"

"I am casting nothing at you," answered the first, grumbling.

They disputed about it for a while, but as they were tired, they gave it
up at last, and their eyes closed once more. Then the little tailor
began his game anew, picked out a heavier stone and threw it down with
force upon the first giant's chest.