The King did not yet wish to give him the promised reward, and set him a
third task to do. Before the wedding could take place the tailor was to
secure a wild boar which had done a great deal of damage in the wood.

The huntsmen were to accompany him.

"All right," said the tailor, "this is child's play."

But he did not take the huntsmen into the wood, and they were all the
better pleased, for the wild boar had many a time before received them
in such a way that they had no fancy to disturb him. When the boar
caught sight of the tailor he ran at him with foaming mouth and gleaming
tusks to bear him to the ground, but the nimble hero rushed into a
chapel which chanced to be near, and jumped quickly out of a window on
the other side. The boar ran after him, and when he got inside the door
shut after him, and there he was imprisoned, for the creature was too
big and unwieldy to jump out of the window too. Then the little tailor
called the huntsmen that they might see the prisoner with their own
eyes; and then he betook himself to the king, who now, whether he liked
it or not, was obliged to fulfil his promise, and give him his daughter
and the half of his kingdom. But if he had known that the great warrior
was only a little tailor he would have taken it still more to heart. So
the wedding was celebrated with great splendour and little joy, and the
tailor was made into a king.

One night the young queen heard her husband talking in his sleep and
saying,

"Now boy, make me that waistcoat and patch me those breeches, or I will
lay my yard measure about your shoulders!"

And so, as she perceived of what low birth her husband was, she went to
her father the next morning and told him all, and begged him to set her
free from a man who was nothing better than a tailor. The king bade her
be comforted, saying,

"To-night leave your bedroom door open, my guard shall stand outside,
and when he is asleep they shall come in and bind him and carry him off
to a ship, and he shall be sent to the other side of the world."

So the wife felt consoled, but the king's water-bearer, who had been
listening all the while, went to the little tailor and disclosed to him
the whole plan.

"I shall put a stop to all this," said he.

At night he lay down as usual in bed, and when his wife thought that he
was asleep, she got up, opened the door and lay down again. The little
tailor, who only made believe to be asleep, began to murmur plainly,