A WIDOW had two daughters; one was pretty and industrious, the other was
ugly and lazy. And as the ugly one was her own daughter, she loved her
much the best, and the pretty one was made to do all the work, and be
the drudge of the house. Every day the poor girl had to sit by a well on
the high road and spin until her fingers bled. Now it happened once that
as the spindle was bloody, she dipped it into the well to wash it; but
it slipped out of her hand and fell in. Then she began to cry, and ran
to her step-mother, and told her of her misfortune; and her step-mother
scolded her without mercy, and said in her rage,

"As you have let the spindle fall in, you must go and fetch it out
again!"

Then the girl went back again to the well, not knowing what to do, and
in the despair of her heart she jumped down into the well the same way
the spindle had gone. After that she knew nothing; and when she came to
herself she was in a beautiful meadow, and the sun was shining on the
flowers that grew round her. And she walked on through the meadow until
she came to a baker's oven that was full of bread; and the bread called
out to her,

"Oh, take me out, take me out, or I shall burn; I am baked enough
already!"

Then she drew near, and with the baker's peel she took out all the
loaves one after the other. And she went farther on till she came to
a tree weighed down with apples, and it called out to her,

"Oh, shake me, shake me, we apples are all of us ripe!"

Then she shook the tree until the apples fell like rain, and she shook
until there were no more to fall; and when she had gathered them
together in a heap, she went on farther. At last she came to a little
house, and an old woman was peeping out of it, but she had such great
teeth that the girl was terrified and about to run away, only the old
woman called her back.

"What are you afraid of, my dear child? Come and live with me, and if
you do the house-work well and orderly, things shall go well with you.
You must take great pains to make my bed well, and shake it up
thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about, and then in the world it
snows, for I am Mother Hulda."[A]

[Footnote A: In Hesse, when it snows, they say, "Mother Hulda is making
her bed."]