"That is all very fine; suppose one of you should fall on my head," and
went on farther. When she came to Mother Hulda's house she did not feel
afraid, as she knew beforehand of her great teeth, and entered into her
service at once. The first day she put her hand well to the work, and
was industrious, and did everything Mother Hulda bade her, because of
the gold she expected; but the second day she began to be idle, and the
third day still more so, so that she would not get up in the morning.
Neither did she make Mother Hulda's bed as it ought to have been made,
and did not shake it for the feathers to fly about. So that Mother Hulda
soon grew tired of her, and gave her warning, at which the lazy thing
was well pleased, and thought that now the shower of gold was coming;
so Mother Hulda led her to the door, and as she stood in the doorway,
instead of the shower of gold a great kettle full of pitch was emptied
over her.

"That is the reward for your service," said Mother Hulda, and shut the
door. So the lazy girl came home all covered with pitch, and the cock on
the top of the well seeing her, cried,

"Cock-a-doodle doo!
    Our dirty girl has come home too!"

And the pitch remained sticking to her fast, and never, as long as she
lived, could it be got off.

LITTLE RED CAP

THERE was once a sweet little maid, much beloved by everybody, but most
of all by her grandmother, who never knew how to make enough of her.
Once she sent her a little cap of red velvet, and as it was very
becoming to her, and she never wore anything else, people called her
Little Red-cap. One day her mother said to her,

"Come, Little Red-cap, here are some cakes and a flask of wine for you
to take to grandmother; she is weak and ill, and they will do her good.
Make haste and start before it grows hot, and walk properly and nicely,
and don't run, or you might fall and break the flask of wine, and there
would be none left for grandmother. And when you go into her room, don't
forget to say, Good morning, instead of staring about you."

"I will be sure to take care," said Little Red-cap to her mother, and
gave her hand upon it. Now the grandmother lived away in the wood,
half-an-hour's walk from the village; and when Little Red-cap had
reached the wood, she met the wolf; but as she did not know what a bad
sort of animal he was, she did not feel frightened.

"Good day, Little Red-cap," said he.

"Thank you kindly, Wolf," answered she.

"Where are you going so early, Little Red-cap?"

"To my grandmother's."

"What are you carrying under your apron?"