"The better to devour you!" And no sooner had the wolf said it than he
made one bound from the bed, and swallowed up poor Little Red-cap.

Then the wolf, having satisfied his hunger, lay down again in the bed,
went to sleep, and began to snore loudly. The huntsman heard him as he
was passing by the house, and thought,

"How the old woman snores--I had better see if there is anything the
matter with her."

Then he went into the room, and walked up to the bed, and saw the wolf
lying there.

"At last I find you, you old sinner!" said he; "I have been looking for
you a long time." And he made up his mind that the wolf had swallowed
the grandmother whole, and that she might yet be saved. So he did not
fire, but took a pair of shears and began to slit up the wolf's body.
When he made a few snips Little Red-cap appeared, and after a few more
snips she jumped out and cried, "Oh dear, how frightened I have been! it
is so dark inside the wolf." And then out came the old grandmother,
still living and breathing. But Little Red-cap went and quickly fetched
some large stones, with which she filled the wolf's body, so that when
he waked up, and was going to rush away, the stones were so heavy that
he sank down and fell dead.

They were all three very pleased. The huntsman took off the wolf's skin,
and carried it home. The grandmother ate the cakes, and drank the wine,
and held up her head again, and Little Red-cap said to herself that she
would never more stray about in the wood alone, but would mind what her
mother told her.

It must also be related how a few days afterwards, when Little Red-cap
was again taking cakes to her grandmother, another wolf spoke to her,
and wanted to tempt her to leave the path; but she was on her guard, and
went straight on her way, and told her grandmother how that the wolf had
met her, and wished her good-day, but had looked so wicked about the
eyes that she thought if it had not been on the high road he would have
devoured her.

"Come," said the grandmother, "we will shut the door, so that he may not
get in."