Soon after came the wolf knocking at the door, and calling out, "Open
the door, grandmother, I am Little Red-cap, bringing you cakes." But
they remained still, and did not open the door. After that the wolf
slunk by the house, and got at last upon thereof to wait until Little
Red-cap should return home in the evening; then he meant to spring down
upon her, and devour her in the darkness. But the grandmother discovered
his plot. Now there stood before the house a great stone trough, and the
grandmother said to the child, "Little Red-cap, I was boiling sausages
yesterday, so take the bucket, and carry away the water they were boiled
in, and pour it into the trough."

And Little Red-cap did so until the great trough was quite full. When
the smell of the sausages reached the nose of the wolf he snuffed it up,
and looked round, and stretched out his neck so far that he lost his
balance and began to slip, and he slipped down off the roof straight
into the great trough, and was drowned. Then Little Red-cap went
cheerfully home, and came to no harm.

THE BREMEN TOWN MUSICIANS

THERE was once an ass whose master had made him carry sacks to the mill
for many a long year, but whose strength began at last to fail, so that
each day as it came found him less capable of work. Then his master
began to think of turning him out, but the ass, guessing that something
was in the wind that boded him no good, ran away, taking the road to
Bremen; for there he thought he might get an engagement as town
musician. When he had gone a little way he found a hound lying by the
side of the road panting, as if he had run a long way.

"Now, Holdfast, what are you so out of breath about?" said the ass.

"Oh dear!" said the dog, "now I am old, I get weaker every day, and can
do no good in the hunt, so, as my master was going to have me killed, I
have made my escape; but now, how am I to gain a living?"

"I will tell you what," said the ass, "I am going to Bremen to become
town musician. You may as well go with me, and take up music too. I can
play the lute, and you can beat the drum."

And the dog consented, and they walked on together. It was not long
before they came to a cat sitting in the road, looking as dismal as
three wet days.

"Now then, what is the matter with you, old shaver?" said the ass.