"I should like to know who would be cheerful when his neck is in
danger?" answered the cat. "Now that I am old my teeth are getting
blunt, and I would rather sit by the oven and purr than run about after
mice, and my mistress wanted to drown me; so I took myself off; but good
advice is scarce, and I do not know what is to become of me."

"Go with us to Bremen," said the ass, "and become town musician. You
understand serenading."

The cat thought well of the idea, and went with them accordingly. After
that the three travellers passed by a yard, and a cock was perched on
the gate crowing with all his might.

"Your cries are enough to pierce bone and marrow," said the ass; "what
is the matter?"

"I have foretold good weather for Lady-day, so that all the shirts may
be washed and dried; and now on Sunday morning company is coming, and
the mistress has told the cook that I must be made into soup, and this
evening my neck is to be wrung, so that I am crowing with all my might
while I can."

"You had much better go with us, Chanticleer," said the ass. "We are
going to Bremen. At any rate that will be better than dying. You have a
powerful voice, and when we are all performing together it will have a
very good effect."

So the cock consented, and they went on all four together.

But Bremen was too far off to be reached in one day, and towards evening
they came to a wood, where they determined to pass the night. The ass
and the dog lay down under a large tree; the cat got up among the
branches, and the cock flew up to the top, as that was the safest place
for him. Before he went to sleep he looked all round him to the four
points of the compass, and perceived in the distance a little light
shining, and he called out to his companions that there must be a house
not far off, as he could see a light, so the ass said,

"We had better get up and go there, for these are uncomfortable
quarters." The dog began to fancy a few bones, not quite bare, would do
him good. And they all set off in the direction of the light, and it
grew larger and brighter, until at last it led them to a robber's house,
all lighted up. The ass, being the biggest, went up to the window, and
looked in.

"Well, what do you see?" asked the dog.

"What do I see?" answered the ass; "here is a table set out with
splendid eatables and drinkables, and robbers sitting at it and making
themselves very comfortable."

"That would just suit us," said the cock.