"Now," said Hans, "I cannot think that greater sense than that could be
wanted in my household; so as you are so clever, Else, I will have you
for my wife," and taking her by the hand he led her upstairs, and they
had the wedding at once.

A little while after they were married, Hans said to his wife,

"I am going out to work, in order to get money; you go into the field
and cut the corn, so that we may have bread."

"Very well, I will do so, dear Hans," said she. And after Hans was gone
she cooked herself some nice stew, and took it with her into the field.
And when she got there, she said to herself,

"Now, what shall I do? shall I reap first, or eat first? All right, I
will eat first." Then she ate her fill of stew, and when she could eat
no more, she said to herself,

"Now, what shall I do? shall I reap first, or sleep first? All right, I
will sleep first." Then she lay down in the corn and went to sleep. And
Hans got home, and waited there a long while, and Else did not come, so
he said to himself,

"My clever Else is so industrious that she never thinks of coming home
and eating."

But when evening drew near and still she did not come, Hans set out to
see how much corn she had cut; but she had cut no corn at all, but there
she was lying in it asleep. Then Hans made haste home, and fetched a
bird-net with little bells and threw it over her; and still she went on
sleeping. And he ran home again and locked himself in, and sat him down
on his bench to work. At last, when it was beginning to grow dark,
Clever Else woke, and when she got up and shook herself, the bells
jingled at each movement that she made. Then she grew frightened, and
began to doubt whether she were really Clever Else or not, and said to
herself,

"Am I, or am I not?" And, not knowing what answer to make, she stood for
a long while considering; at last she thought,

"I will go home to Hans and ask him if I am I or not; he is sure to
know."

So she ran up to the door of her house, but it was locked; then she
knocked at the window, and cried,

"Hans, is Else within?"

"Yes," answered Hans, "she is in."

Then she was in a greater fright than ever, and crying,

"Oh dear, then I am not I," she went to inquire at another door, but the
people hearing the jingling of the bells would not open to her, and she
could get in nowhere. So she ran away beyond the village, and since then
no one has seen her.

The TABLE, the ASS, and the STICK.