THERE was once a tailor who had three sons and one goat. And the goat,
as she nourished them all with her milk, was obliged to have good food,
and so she was led every day down to the willows by the water-side; and
this business the sons did in turn. One day the eldest took the goat to
the churchyard, where the best sprouts are, that she might eat her fill,
and gambol about.

In the evening, when it was time to go home, he said,

"Well, goat, have you had enough?"

The goat answered,

"I am so full,
    I cannot pull
    Another blade of grass--ba! baa!"

"Then come home," said the youth, and fastened a string to her, led her
to her stall, and fastened her up.

"Now," said the old tailor, "has the goat had her proper food?"

"Oh," answered the son, "she is so full, she no more can pull."

But the father, wishing to see for himself, went out to the stall,
stroked his dear goat, and said,

"My dear goat, are you full?" And the goat answered,

"How can I be full?
    There was nothing to pull,
    Though I looked all about me--ba! baa!"

"What is this that I hear?" cried the tailor, and he ran and called out
to the youth,

"O you liar, to say that the goat was full, and she has been hungry all
the time!" And in his wrath he took up his yard-measure and drove his
son out of the house with many blows.

The next day came the turn of the second son, and he found a fine place
in the garden hedge, where there were good green sprouts, and the goat
ate them all up. In the evening, when he came to lead her home, he said,

"Well, goat, have you had enough?" And the goat answered,

"I am so full,
    I could not pull
    Another blade of grass--ba! baa!"

"Then come home," said the youth, and led her home, and tied her up.

"Now," said the old tailor, "has the goat had her proper food?"

"Oh," answered the son, "she is so full, she no more can pull."

The tailor, not feeling satisfied, went out to the stall, and said,

"My dear goat, are you really full?" And the goat answered,

"How can I be full?
    There was nothing to pull,
    Though I looked all about me--ba! baa!"

"The good-for-nothing rascal," cried the tailor, "to let the dear
creature go fasting!" and, running back, he chased the youth with his
yard-wand out of the house.

Then came the turn of the third son, who, meaning to make all sure,
found some shrubs with the finest sprouts possible, and left the goat to
devour them. In the evening, when he came to lead her home, he said,

"Well, goat, are you full?" And the goat answered,

"I am so full,
    I could not pull
    Another blade of grass--ba! baa!"

"Then come home," said the youth; and he took her to her stall, and
fastened her up.