Then they laughed, and thought he must be joking. But he brought his
little wooden table, and put it in the middle of the room, and said,
"Table, be covered!" Immediately it was set out with food much better
than the landlord had been able to provide, and the good smell of it
greeted the noses of the guests very agreeably. "Fall to, good friends,"
said the joiner; and the guests, when they saw how it was, needed no
second asking, but taking up knife and fork fell to valiantly. And what
seemed most wonderful was that when a dish was empty immediately a full
one stood in its place. All the while the landlord stood in a corner,
and watched all that went on. He could not tell what to say about it;
but he thought "such cooking as that would make my inn prosper." The
joiner and his fellowship kept it up very merrily until late at night.
At last they went to sleep, and the young joiner, going to bed, left his
wishing-table standing against the wall. The landlord, however, could
not sleep for thinking of the table, and he remembered that there was in
his lumber room an old table very like it, so he fetched it, and taking
away the joiner's table, he left the other in its place. The next
morning the joiner paid his reckoning, took up the table, not dreaming
that he was carrying off the wrong one, and went on his way. About noon
he reached home, and his father received him with great joy.

"Now, my dear son, what have you learned?" said he to him.

"I have learned to be a joiner, father," he answered.

"That is a good trade," returned the father; "but what have you brought
back with you from your travels?"

"The best thing I've got, father, is this little table," said he.

The tailor looked at it on all sides, and said,

"You have certainly produced no masterpiece. It is a rubbishing old
table."

"But it is a very wonderful one," answered the son. "When I set it down,
and tell it to be covered, at once the finest meats are standing on it,
and wine so good that it cheers the heart. Let us invite all the friends
and neighbours, that they may feast and enjoy themselves, for the table
will provide enough for all."

When the company was all assembled, he put his table in the middle of
the room, and said, "Table, be covered!"

But the table never stirred, and remained just as empty as any other
table that does not understand talking. When the poor joiner saw that
the table remained unfurnished, he felt ashamed to stand there like a
fool. The company laughed at him freely, and were obliged to return
unfilled and uncheered to their houses. The father gathered his pieces
together and returned to his tailoring, and the son went to work under
another master.