The second son had bound himself apprentice to a miller. And when his
time was up, his master said to him,

"As you have behaved yourself so well, I will give you an ass of a
remarkable kind: he will draw no cart, and carry no sack."

"What is the good of him then?" asked the young apprentice.

"He spits out gold," answered the miller. "If you put a cloth before him
and say, 'Bricklebrit,' out come gold pieces."

"That is a capital thing," said the apprentice, and, thanking his
master, he went out into the world. Whenever he wanted gold he had only
to say "Bricklebrit" to his ass, and there was a shower of gold pieces,
and so he had no cares as he travelled about. Wherever he came he lived
on the best, and the dearer the better, as his purse was always full.
And when he had been looking about him about the world a long time, he
thought he would go and find out his father, who would perhaps forget
his anger and receive him kindly because of his gold ass. And it
happened that he came to lodge in the same inn where his brother's table
had been exchanged. He was leading his ass in his hand, and the landlord
was for taking the ass from him to tie it up, but the young apprentice
said,

"Don't trouble yourself, old fellow, I will take him into the stable
myself and tie him up, and then I shall know where to find him."

The landlord thought this was very strange, and he never supposed that a
man who was accustomed to look after his ass himself could have much to
spend; but when the stranger, feeling in his pocket, took out two gold
pieces and told him to get him something good for supper; the landlord
stared, and ran and fetched the best that could be got. After supper the
guest called the reckoning, and the landlord, wanting to get all the
profit he could, said that it would amount to two gold pieces more. The
apprentice felt in his pocket, but his gold had come to an end.

"Wait a moment, landlord," said he, "I will go and fetch some money,"
and he went out of the room, carrying the table-cloth with him. The
landlord could not tell what to make of it, and, curious to know his
proceedings, slipped after him, and as the guest shut the stable-door,
he peeped in through a knot-hole. Then he saw how the stranger spread
the cloth before the ass, saying, "Bricklebrit," and directly the ass
spat out gold, which rained upon the ground.

"Dear me," said the landlord, "that is an easy way of getting ducats; a
purse of money like that is no bad thing."