After that the guest paid his reckoning and went to bed; but the
landlord slipped down to the stable in the middle of the night, led the
gold-ass away, and tied up another ass in his place. The next morning
early the apprentice set forth with his ass, never doubting that it was
the right one. By noon he came to his father's house, who was rejoiced
to see him again, and received him gladly.

"What trade have you taken up, my son?" asked the father.

"I am a miller, dear father," answered he.

"What have you brought home from your travels?" continued the father.

"Nothing but an ass," answered the son.

"We have plenty of asses here," said the father. "You had much better
have brought me a nice goat!"

"Yes," answered the son, "but this is no common ass. When I say,
'Bricklebrit,' the good creature spits out a whole clothful of gold
pieces. Let me call all the neighbours together. I will make rich people
of them all."

"That will be fine!" said the tailor. "Then I need labour no more at my
needle;" and he rushed out himself and called the neighbours together.
As soon as they were all assembled, the miller called out to them to
make room, and brought in the ass, and spread his cloth before him.

"Now, pay attention," said he, and cried, "Bricklebrit!" but no gold
pieces came, and that showed that the animal was not more scientific
than any other ass.

So the poor miller made a long face when he saw that he had been taken
in, and begged pardon of the neighbours, who all went home as poor as
they had come. And there was nothing for it but that the old man must
take to his needle again, and that the young one should take service
with a miller.

The third brother had bound himself apprentice to a turner; and as
turning is a very ingenious handicraft, it took him a long time to learn
it. His brother told him in a letter how badly things had gone with
them, and how on the last night of their travels the landlord deprived
them of their treasures. When the young turner had learnt his trade, and
was ready to travel, his master, to reward him for his good conduct,
gave him a sack, and told him that there was a stick inside it.

"I can hang up the sack, and it may be very useful to me," said the
young man. "But what is the good of the stick?"

"I will tell you," answered the master. "If any one does you any harm,
and you say, 'Stick, out of the sack!' the stick will jump out upon
them, and will belabour them so soundly that they shall not be able to
move or to leave the place for a week, and it will not stop until you
say, 'Stick, into the sack!'"