The apprentice thanked him, and took up the sack and started on his
travels, and when any one attacked him he would say, "Stick, out of the
sack!" and directly out jumped the stick, and dealt a shower of blows on
the coat or jerkin, and the back beneath, which quickly ended the
affair. One evening the young turner reached the inn where his two
brothers had been taken in. He laid his knapsack on the table, and began
to describe all the wonderful things he had seen in the world.

"Yes," said he, "you may talk of your self-spreading table,
gold-supplying ass, and so forth; very good things, I do not deny, but
they are nothing in comparison with the treasure that I have acquired
and carry with me in that sack!"

Then the landlord opened his ears.

"What in the world can it be?" thought he. "Very likely the sack is full
of precious stones; and I have a perfect right to it, for all good
things come in threes."

When bedtime came the guest stretched himself on a bench, and put his
sack under his head for a pillow, and the landlord, when he thought the
young man was sound asleep, came, and, stooping down, pulled gently at
the sack, so as to remove it cautiously, and put another in its place.
The turner had only been waiting for this to happen, and just as the
landlord was giving a last courageous pull, he cried, "Stick, out of the
sack!" Out flew the stick directly, and laid to heartily on the
landlord's back; and in vain he begged for mercy; the louder he cried
the harder the stick beat time on his back, until he fell exhausted to
the ground. Then the turner said,

"If you do not give me the table and the ass directly, this game shall
begin all over again."

"Oh dear, no!" cried the landlord, quite collapsed; "I will gladly give
it all back again if you will only make this terrible goblin go back
into the sack."

Then said the young man, "I will be generous instead of just, but
beware!" Then he cried, "Stick, into the sack!" and left him in peace.

The next morning the turner set out with the table and the ass on his
way home to his father. The tailor was very glad, indeed, to see him
again, and asked him what he had learned abroad.

"My dear father," answered he, "I am become a turner."

"A very ingenious handicraft," said the father. "And what have you
brought with you from your travels?"

"A very valuable thing, dear father," answered the son. "A stick in a
sack!"

"What!" cried the father. "A stick! The thing is not worth so much
trouble when you can cut one from any tree."