And the waggon went right through the wood, up to the place where the
wood had been hewed. When Tom Thumb caught sight of his father, he cried
out,

"Look, father, here am I with the waggon; now, take me down."

The father held the horse with his left hand, and with the right he
lifted down his little son out of the horse's ear, and Tom Thumb sat
down on a stump, quite happy and content. When the two strangers saw him
they were struck dumb with wonder. At last one of them, taking the other
aside, said to him, "Look here, the little chap would make our fortune
if we were to show him in the town for money. Suppose we buy him."

So they went up to the woodcutter, and said,

"Sell the little man to us; we will take care he shall come to no harm."

"No," answered the father; "he is the apple of my eye, and not for all
the money in the world would I sell him."

But Tom Thumb, when he heard what was going on, climbed up by his
father's coat tails, and, perching himself on his shoulder, he whispered
in his ear,

"Father, you might as well let me go. I will soon come back again."

Then the father gave him up to the two men for a large piece of money.
They asked him where he would like to sit,

"Oh, put me on the brim of your hat," said he. "There I can walk about
and view the country, and be in no danger of falling off."

So they did as he wished, and when Tom Thumb had taken leave of his
father, they set off all together. And they travelled on until it grew
dusk, and the little fellow asked to be set down a little while for a
change, and after some difficulty they consented. So the man took him
down from his hat, and set him in a field by the roadside, and he ran
away directly, and, after creeping about among the furrows, he slipped
suddenly into a mouse-hole, just what he was looking for.

"Good evening, my masters, you can go home without me!" cried he to
them, laughing. They ran up and felt about with their sticks in the
mouse-hole, but in vain. Tom Thumb crept farther and farther in, and as
it was growing dark, they had to make the best of their way home, full
of vexation, and with empty purses.

When Tom Thumb found they were gone, he crept out of his hiding-place
underground.

"It is dangerous work groping about these holes in the darkness," said
he; "I might easily break my neck."

But by good fortune he came upon an empty snail shell.

"That's all right," said he. "Now I can get safely through the night;"
and he settled himself down in it. Before he had time to get to sleep,
he heard two men pass by, and one was saying to the other,