So Tom Thumb crept among the hay, and found a comfortable nook to sleep
in, where he intended to remain until it was day, and then to go home to
his father and mother. But other things were to befall him; indeed,
there is nothing but trouble and worry in this world! The maid got up
at dawn of day to feed the cows. The first place she went to was the
barn, where she took up an armful of hay, and it happened to be the very
heap in which Tom Thumb lay asleep. And he was so fast asleep, that he
was aware of nothing, and never waked until he was in the mouth of the
cow, who had taken him up with the hay.

"Oh dear," cried he, "how is it that I have got into a mill!" but he
soon found out where he was, and he had to be very careful not to get
between the cow's teeth, and at last he had to descend into the cow's
stomach.

"The windows were forgotten when this little room was built," said he,
"and the sunshine cannot get in; there is no light to be had."

His quarters were in every way unpleasant to him, and, what was the
worst, new hay was constantly coming in, and the space was being filled
up. At last he cried out in his extremity, as loud as he could,

"No more hay for me! no more hay for me!"

The maid was then milking the cow, and as she heard a voice, but could
see no one, and as it was the same voice that she had heard in the
night, she was so frightened that she fell off her stool, and spilt the
milk. Then she ran in great haste to her master, crying,

"Oh, master dear, the cow spoke!"

"You must be crazy," answered her master, and he went himself to the
cow-house to see what was the matter. No sooner had he put his foot
inside the door, than Tom Thumb cried out again,

"No more hay for me! no more hay for me!"

Then the parson himself was frightened, supposing that a bad spirit had
entered into the cow, and he ordered her to be put to death. So she was
killed, but the stomach, where Tom Thumb was lying, was thrown upon a
dunghill. Tom Thumb had great trouble to work his way out of it, and he
had just made a space big enough for his head to go through, when a new
misfortune happened. A hungry wolf ran up and swallowed the whole
stomach at one gulp. But Tom Thumb did not lose courage. "Perhaps,"
thought he, "the wolf will listen to reason," and he cried out from the
inside of the wolf,

"My dear wolf, I can tell you where to get a splendid meal!"

"Where is it to be had?" asked the wolf.