"In such and such a house, and you must creep into it through the drain,
and there you will find cakes and bacon and broth, as much as you can
eat," and he described to him His father's house. The wolf needed not to
be told twice. He squeezed himself through the drain in the night, and
feasted in the store-room to his heart's content. When, at last, he was
satisfied, he wanted to go away again, but he had become so big, that to
creep the same way back was impossible. This Tom Thumb had reckoned
upon, and began to make a terrible din inside the wolf, crying and
calling as loud as he could.

"Will you be quiet?" said the wolf; "you will wake the folks up!"

"Look here," cried the little man, "you are very well satisfied, and now
I will do something for my own enjoyment," and began again to make all
the noise he could. At last the father and mother were awakened, and
they ran to the room-door and peeped through the chink, and when they
saw a wolf in occupation, they ran and fetched weapons--the man an axe,
and the wife a scythe.

"Stay behind," said the man, as they entered the room; "when I have
given him a blow, and it does not seem to have killed him, then you must
cut at him with your scythe."

Then Tom Thumb heard his father's voice, and cried,

"Dear father, I am here in the wolf's inside."

Then the father called out full of joy,

"Thank heaven that we have found our dear child!" and told his wife to
keep the scythe out of the way, lest Tom Thumb should be hurt with it.
Then he drew near and struck the wolf such a blow on the head that he
fell down dead; and then he fetched a knife and a pair of scissors, slit
up the wolf's body, and let out the little fellow.

"Oh, what anxiety we have felt about you!" said the father.

"Yes, father, I have seen a good deal of the world, and I am very glad
to breathe fresh air again."

"And where have you been all this time?" asked his father.

"Oh, I have been in a mouse-hole and a snail's shell, in a cow's stomach
and a wolf's inside: now, I think, I will stay at home."

"And we will not part with you for all the kingdoms of the world," cried
the parents, as they kissed and hugged their dear little Tom Thumb. And
they gave him something to eat and drink, and a new suit of clothes, as
his old ones were soiled with travel.

HOW MRS FOX MARRIED AGAIN

FIRST VERSION.