"She is sitting upstairs in her grief,
      And her eyes with her weeping are sore,
    From her sorrow she gets no relief,
      Now poor old Mr. Fox is no more!"

The wolf answered,

"Won't she take another spouse,
    To protect her and her house?"

Up went the cat, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat.

She knocks at the door, rat-a-tat, rat-a-tat!

"Mrs. Fox, are you there?"
    "Yes, yes, pussy dear!"
    "There's a suitor below,
    Shall I tell him to go?"

But Mrs. Fox asked, "Has the gentleman red breeches and a sharp nose?"

"No," answered the cat.

"Then I won't have him," said Mrs. Fox.

After the wolf was sent away, there came a dog, a stag, a hare, a bear,
a lion, and several other wild animals. But they all of them lacked the
good endowments possessed by the late Mr. Fox, so that the cat had to
send them all away. At last came a young fox. And Mrs. Fox inquired
whether he had red breeches and a sharp nose.

"Yes, he has," said the cat.

"Then I will have him," said Mrs. Fox, and bade the cat make ready the
wedding-feast.

"Now, cat, sweep the parlours and bustle about,
    And open the window, turn Mr. Fox out;
    Then, if you've a fancy for anything nice,
    Just manage to catch for yourself a few mice,
    You may eat them alone,
    I do not want one."

So she was married to young Master Fox with much dancing and rejoicing,
and for anything I have heard to the contrary, they may be dancing
still.

THE ELVES

(I)

THERE was once a shoemaker, who, through no fault of his own, became so
poor that at last he had nothing left but just enough leather to make
one pair of shoes. He cut out the shoes at night, so as to set to work
upon them next morning; and as he had a good conscience, he laid himself
quietly down in his bed, committed himself to heaven, and fell asleep.
In the morning, after he had said his prayers, and was going to get to
work, he found the pair of shoes made and finished, and standing on his
table. He was very much astonished, and could not tell what to think,
and he took the shoes in his hand to examine them more nearly; and they
were so well made that every stitch was in its right place, just as if
they had come from the hand of a master-workman.