Soon after a purchaser entered, and as the shoes fitted him very well,
he gave more than the usual price for them, so that the shoemaker had
enough money to buy leather for two more pairs of shoes. He cut them out
at night, and intended to set to work the next morning with fresh
spirit; but that was not to be, for when he got up they were already
finished, and a customer even was not lacking, who gave him so much
money that he was able to buy leather enough for four new pairs. Early
next morning he found the four pairs also finished, and so it always
happened; whatever he cut out in the evening was worked up by the
morning, so that he was soon in the way of making a good living, and in
the end became very well to do.

One night, not long before Christmas, when the shoemaker had finished
cutting out, and before he went to bed, he said to his wife,

"How would it be if we were to sit up to-night and see who it is that
does us this service?"

His wife agreed, and set a light to burn. Then they both hid in a corner
of the room, behind some coats that were hanging up, and then they began
to watch. As soon as it was midnight they saw come in two neatly-formed
naked little men, who seated themselves before the shoemaker's table,
and took up the work that was already prepared, and began to stitch, to
pierce, and to hammer so cleverly and quickly with their little fingers
that the shoemaker's eyes could scarcely follow them, so full of wonder
was he. And they never left off until everything was finished and was
standing ready on the table, and then they jumped up and ran off.

The next morning the shoemaker's wife said to her husband, "Those little
men have made us rich, and we ought to show ourselves grateful. With all
their running about, and having nothing to cover them, they must be very
cold. I'll tell you what; I will make little shirts, coats, waistcoats,
and breeches for them, and knit each of them a pair of stockings, and
you shall make each of them a pair of shoes."

The husband consented willingly, and at night, when everything was
finished, they laid the gifts together on the table, instead of the
cut-out work, and placed themselves so that they could observe how the
little men would behave. When midnight came, they rushed in, ready to
set to work, but when they found, instead of the pieces of prepared
leather, the neat little garments put ready for them, they stood a
moment in surprise, and then they testified the greatest delight. With
the greatest swiftness they took up the pretty garments and slipped them
on, singing,

"What spruce and dandy boys are we!
    No longer cobblers we will be."