Then they hopped and danced about, jumping over the chairs and tables,
and at last they danced out at the door.

From that time they were never seen again; but it always went well with
the shoemaker as long as he lived, and whatever he took in hand
prospered.

(II.)

THERE was once a poor servant maid, who was very cleanly and
industrious; she swept down the house every day, and put the sweepings
on a great heap by the door. One morning, before she began her work, she
found a letter, and as she could not read, she laid her broom in the
corner, and took the letter to her master and mistress, to see what it
was about; and it was an invitation from the elves, who wished the maid
to come and stand godmother to one of their children. The maid did not
know what to do; and as she was told that no one ought to refuse the
elves anything, she made up her mind to go. So there came three little
elves, who conducted her into the middle of a high mountain, where the
little people lived. Here everything was of a very small size, but more
fine and elegant than can be told. The mother of the child lay in a bed
made of ebony, studded with pearls, the counterpane was embroidered with
gold, the cradle was of ivory, and the bathing-tub of gold. So the maid
stood godmother, and was then for going home, but the elves begged her
to stay at least three more days with them; and so she consented, and
spent the time in mirth and jollity, and the elves seemed very fond of
her. At last, when she was ready to go away, they filled her pockets
full of gold, and led her back again out of the mountain. When she got
back to the house, she was going to begin working again, and took her
broom in her hand; it was still standing in the corner where she had
left it, and began to sweep. Then came up some strangers and asked her
who she was, and what she was doing. And she found that instead of three
days, she had been seven years with the elves in the mountain, and that
during that time her master and mistress had died.

(III.)

The elves once took a child away from its mother, and left in its place
a changeling with a big head and staring eyes, who did nothing but eat
and drink. The mother in her trouble went to her neighbours and asked
their advice. The neighbours told her to take the changeling into the
kitchen and put it near the hearth, and then to make up the fire, and
boil water in two egg-shells; that would make the changeling laugh, and
if he laughed, it would be all over with him. So the woman did as her
neighbours advised. And when she set the egg-shells of water on the
fire, the changeling said,