When Tom Thumb had set to work anew, they heard the chink, chink of the
money, and hastily rushed in to catch the thief. But the little tailor,
as he heard them coming, was too quick for them, and, hiding in a
corner, he covered himself up with a dollar, so that nothing of him was
to be seen, and then he mocked the sentinels, crying, "Here I am!" They
ran about, and when they came near him, he was soon in another corner
under a dollar, crying, "Here I am!" Then the sentinels ran towards him,
and in a moment he was in a third corner, crying, "Here I am!" In this
way he made fools of them, and dodged them so long about the
treasure-chamber, that they got tired and went away. Then he set to
work, and threw the dollars out of the window, one after the other, till
they were all gone; and when it came to the last, as he flung it with
all his might, he jumped nimbly on it, and flew with it out of the
window. The robbers gave him great praise, saying,

"You are a most valiant hero; will you be our captain?"

But Tom Thumb thanked them, and said he would like to see the world
first. Then they divided the spoil; but the little tailor's share was
only one farthing, which was all he was able to carry.

Then binding his sword to his side, he bid the robbers good day, and
started on his way. He applied to several master tailors, but they would
not have anything to do with him; and at last he hired himself as indoor
servant at an inn. The maid servants took a great dislike to him, for he
used to see everything they did without being seen by them, and he told
the master and mistress about what they took from the plates, and what
they carried away out of the cellar. And they said, "Wait a little, we
will pay you out," and took counsel together to play him some
mischievous trick. Once when one of the maids was mowing the grass in
the garden she saw Tom Thumb jumping about and creeping among the
cabbages, and she mowed him with the grass, tied all together in a
bundle, and threw it to the cows. Among the cows was a big black one,
who swallowed him down, without doing him any harm. But he did not like
his lodging, it was so dark, and there was no candle to be had. When the
cow was being milked, he cried out,

"Strip, strap, strull,
    Will the pail soon be full?"

But he was not understood because of the noise of the milk. Presently
the landlord came into the stable and said,

"To-morrow this cow is to be slaughtered."

At that Tom Thumb felt very terrified; and with his shrillest voice he
cried,

"Let me out first; I am sitting inside here!"