"Oh," said the mother, "he is gone into the country to his great-uncle's
to stay for a little while."

"What should he go for?" said the father, "and without bidding me
good-bye, too!"

"Oh, he wanted to go so much, and he asked me to let him stay there six
weeks; he will be well taken care of."

"Dear me," said the father, "I am quite sad about it; it was not right
of him to go without bidding me good-bye."

With that he began to eat, saying,

"Marjory, what are you crying for? Your brother will come back some
time."

After a while he said,

"Well, wife, the food is very good; give me some more."

And the more he ate the more he wanted, until he had eaten it all up,
and he threw the bones under the table. Then Marjory went to her chest
of drawers, and took one of her best handkerchiefs from the bottom
drawer, and picked up all the bones from under the table and tied them
up in her handkerchief, and went out at the door crying bitterly. She
laid them in the green grass under the almond tree, and immediately her
heart grew light again, and she wept no more. Then the almond tree began
to wave to and fro, and the boughs drew together and then parted, just
like a clapping of hands for joy; then a cloud rose from the tree, and
in the midst of the cloud there burned a fire, and out of the fire a
beautiful bird arose, and, singing most sweetly, soared high into the
air; and when he had flown away, the almond tree remained as it was
before, but the handkerchief full of bones was gone. Marjory felt quite
glad and light-hearted, just as if her brother were still alive. So she
went back merrily into the house and had her dinner.

The bird, when it flew away, perched on the roof of a goldsmith's house,
and began to sing,

"It was my mother who murdered me;
    It was my father who ate of me;
    It was my sister Marjory
    Who all my bones in pieces found;
    Them in a handkerchief she bound,
    And laid them under the almond tree.
    Kywitt, kywitt, kywitt, I cry,
    Oh what a beautiful bird am I!"

The goldsmith was sitting in his shop making a golden chain, and when he
heard the bird, who was sitting on his roof and singing, he started up
to go and look, and as he passed over his threshold he lost one of his
slippers; and he went into the middle of the street with a slipper on
one foot and only a sock on the other; with his apron on, and the gold
chain in one hand and the pincers in the other; and so he stood in the
sunshine looking up at the bird.

"Bird," said he, "how beautifully you sing; do sing that piece over
again."