Here one of the men looked up.

"It was my father who ate of me;"

Then two more looked up and listened.

"It was my sister Marjory"

Here four more looked up.

"Who all my bones in pieces found;
    Them in a handkerchief she bound,"

Now there were only eight left hewing.

"And laid them under the almond tree."

Now only five.

"Kywitt, kywitt, kywitt, I cry,"

Now only one.

"Oh what a beautiful bird am I!"

At length the last one left off, and he only heard the end.

"Bird," said he, "how beautifully you sing; let me hear it all; sing
that again!"

"No," said the bird, "I may not sing it twice for nothing; if you will
give me the millstone I will sing it again."

"Indeed," said the man, "if it belonged to me alone you should have it."

"All right," said the others, "if he sings again he shall have it."

Then the bird came down, and all the twenty millers heaved up the stone
with poles--"yo! heave-ho! yo! heave-ho!" and the bird stuck his head
through the hole in the middle, and with the millstone round his neck he
flew up to the tree and sang,

"It was my mother who murdered me;
    It was my father who ate of me;
    It was my sister Marjory
    Who all my bones in pieces found;
    Them in a handkerchief she bound,
    And laid them under the almond tree.
    Kywitt, kywitt, kywitt, I cry,
    Oh what a beautiful bird am I!"

And when he had finished, he spread his wings, having in the right claw
the chain, and in the left claw the shoes, and round his neck the
millstone, and he flew away to his father's house.

In the parlour sat the father, the mother, and Marjory at the table; the
father said,

"How light-hearted and cheerful I feel."

"Nay," said the mother, "I feel very low, just as if a great storm were
coming."

But Marjory sat weeping; and the bird came flying, and perched on the
roof.

"Oh," said the father, "I feel so joyful, and the sun is shining so
bright; it is as if I were going to meet with an old friend."

"Nay," said the wife, "I am terrified, my teeth chatter, and there is
fire in my veins," and she tore open her dress to get air; and Marjory
sat in a corner and wept, with her plate before her, until it was quite
full of tears. Then the bird perched on the almond tree, and sang,

"It was my mother who murdered me;"

And the mother stopped her ears and hid her eyes, and would neither see
nor hear; nevertheless, the noise of a fearful storm was in her ears,
and in her eyes a quivering and burning as of lightning.

"It was my father who ate of me;"

"O mother!" said the father, "there is a beautiful bird singing so
finely, and the sun shines, and everything smells as sweet as cinnamon.

"It was my sister Marjory"