Marjory hid her face in her lap and wept, and the father said,

"I must go out to see the bird."

"Oh do not go!" said the wife, "I feel as if the house were on fire."

But the man went out and looked at the bird.

"Who all my bones in pieces found;
    Them in a handkerchief she bound,
    And laid them under the almond tree.
    Kywitt, kywitt, kywitt, I cry,
    Oh what a beautiful bird am I!"

With that the bird let fall the gold chain upon his father's neck, and
it fitted him exactly. So he went indoors and said,

"Look what a beautiful chain the bird has given me."

Then his wife was so terrified that she fell all along on the floor, and
her cap came off. Then the bird began again to sing,

"It was my mother who murdered me;"

"Oh," groaned the mother, "that I were a thousand fathoms under ground,
so as not to be obliged to hear it."

"It was my father who ate of me;"

Then the woman lay as if she were dead.

"It was my sister Marjory"

"Oh," said Marjory, "I will go out, too, and see if the bird will give
me anything." And so she went.

"Who all my bones in pieces found;
    Them in a handkerchief she bound,"

Then he threw the shoes down to her.

"And laid them under the almond tree.
    Kywitt, kywitt, kywitt, I cry,
    Oh what a beautiful bird am I!"

And poor Marjory all at once felt happy and joyful, and put on her red
shoes, and danced and jumped for joy.

"Oh dear," said she, "I felt so sad before I went outside, and now my
heart is so light! He is a charming bird to have given me a pair of red
shoes."

But the mother's hair stood on end, and looked like flame, and she said,

"Even if the world is coming to an end, I must go out for a little
relief."

Just as she came outside the door, crash went the millstone on her head,
and crushed her flat. The father and daughter rushed out, and saw smoke
and flames of fire rise up; but when that had gone by, there stood the
little brother; and he took his father and Marjory by the hand, and they
felt very happy and content, and went indoors, and sat to the table, and
had their dinner.

OLD SULTAN

THERE was once a peasant who owned a faithful dog called Sultan, now
grown so old that he had lost all his teeth, and could lay hold of
nothing. One day the man was standing at the door of his house with his
wife, and he said,

"I shall kill old Sultan to-morrow; he is of no good any longer."

His wife felt sorry for the poor dog, and answered, "He has served us
for so many years, and has kept with us so faithfully, he deserves food
and shelter in his old age."