But the wolf, not supposing it was said in earnest, came sneaking in the
night to carry off the sheep. But the master, who had been warned by the
faithful Sultan of the wolf's intention, was waiting for him, and gave
him a fine hiding with the threshing-flail. So the wolf had to make his
escape, calling out to the dog,

"You shall pay for this, you traitor!"

The next morning the wolf sent the wild boar to call out the dog; and to
appoint a meeting in the wood to receive satisfaction from him. Old
Sultan could find no second but a cat with three legs; and as they set
off together, the poor thing went limping along, holding her tail up in
the air. The wolf and his second were already on the spot; when they saw
their antagonists coming, and caught sight of the elevated tail of the
cat, they thought it was a sabre they were bringing with them. And as
the poor thing came limping on three legs, they supposed it was lifting
a big stone to throw at them. This frightened them very much; the wild
boar crept among the leaves, and the wolf clambered up into a tree. And
when the dog and cat came up, they were surprised not to see any one
there. However, the wild boar was not perfectly hidden in the leaves,
and the tips of his ears peeped out. And when the cat caught sight of
one, she thought it was a mouse, and sprang upon it, seizing it with her
teeth. Out leaped the wild boar with a dreadful cry, and ran away
shouting,

"There is the culprit in the tree!"

And the dog and the cat looking up caught sight of the wolf, who came
down, quite ashamed of his timidity, and made peace with the dog once
more.

THE SIX SWANS

ONCE on a time a king was hunting in a great wood, and he pursued a wild
animal so eagerly that none of his people could follow him. When evening
came he stood still, and looking round him he found that he had lost his
way; and seeking a path, he found none. Then all at once he saw an old
woman with a nodding head coming up to him; and it was a witch.

"My good woman," said he, "can you show me the way out of the wood?"

"Oh yes, my lord king," answered she, "certainly I can; but I must make
a condition, and if you do not fulfil it, you will never get out of the
wood again, but die there of hunger."

"What is the condition?" asked the king.

"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as fair as any in the
world, and if you will take her for your bride, and make her queen, I
will show you the way out of the wood."

The king consented, because of the difficulty he was in, and the old