She received the king just as if she had been expecting him, and though
he saw that she was very beautiful, she did not please him, and he could
not look at her without an inward shudder. Nevertheless, he took the
maiden before him on his horse, and the old woman showed him the way,
and soon he was in his royal castle again, where the wedding was
held.

The king had been married before, and his first wife had left seven
children, six boys and one girl, whom he loved better than all the
world, and as he was afraid the step-mother might not behave well to
them, and perhaps would do them some mischief, he took them to a lonely
castle standing in the middle of a wood. There they remained hidden, for
the road to it was so hard to find that the king himself could not have
found it, had it not been for a clew of yarn, possessing wonderful
properties, that a wise woman had given him; when he threw it down
before him, it unrolled itself and showed him the way. And the king went
so often to see his dear children, that the queen was displeased at his
absence; and she became curious and wanted to know what he went out into
the wood for so often alone. She bribed his servants with much money,
and they showed her the secret, and told her of the clew of yarn, which
alone could point out the way; then she gave herself no rest until she
had found out where the king kept the clew, and then she made some
little white silk shirts, and sewed a charm in each, as she had learned
witchcraft of her mother. And once when the king had ridden to the hunt,
she took the little shirts and went into the wood, and the clew of yarn
showed her the way. The children seeing some one in the distance,
thought it was their dear father coming to see them, and came jumping
for joy to meet him. Then the wicked queen threw over each one of the
little shirts, and as soon as the shirts touched their bodies, they were
changed into swans, and flew away through the wood. So the queen went
home very pleased to think she had got rid of her step-children; but the
maiden had not run out with her brothers, and so the queen knew nothing
about her. The next day the king went to see his children, but he found
nobody but his daughter.

"Where are thy brothers?" asked the king.