But the maiden made up her mind to set her brothers free, even though it
should cost her her life. She left the hut, and going into the middle of
the wood, she climbed a tree, and there passed the night. The next
morning she set to work and gathered asters and began sewing them
together: as for speaking, there was no one to speak to, and as for
laughing, she had no mind to it; so she sat on and looked at nothing but
her work. When she had been going on like this for a long time, it
happened that the king of that country went a-hunting in the wood, and
some of his huntsmen came up to the tree in which the maiden sat. They
called out to her, saying, "Who art thou?" But she gave no answer. "Come
down," cried they; "we will do thee no harm." But she only shook her
head. And when they tormented her further with questions she threw down
to them her gold necklace, hoping they would be content with that. But
they would not leave off, so she threw down to them her girdle, and when
that was no good, her garters, and one after another everything she had
on and could possibly spare, until she had nothing left but her smock.
But all was no good, the huntsmen would not be put off any longer, and
they climbed the tree, carried the maiden off, and brought her to the
king. The king asked, "Who art thou? What wert thou doing in the tree?"
But she answered nothing. He spoke to her in all the languages he knew,
but she remained dumb: but, being very beautiful, the king inclined to
her, and he felt a great love rise up in his heart towards her; and
casting his mantle round her, he put her before him on his horse and
brought her to his castle. Then he caused rich clothing to be put upon
her, and her beauty shone as bright as the morning, but no word would
she utter. He seated her by his side at table, and her modesty and
gentle mien so pleased him, that he said,

"This maiden I choose for wife, and no other in all the world," and
accordingly after a few days they were married.

But the king had a wicked mother, who was displeased with the marriage,
and spoke ill of the young queen.

"Who knows where the maid can have come from?" said she, "and not able
to speak a word! She is not worthy of a king!"