After a year had passed, and the queen brought her first child into the
world, the old woman carried it away, and marked the queen's mouth with
blood as she lay sleeping. Then she went to the king and declared that
his wife was an eater of human flesh. The king would not believe such a
thing, and ordered that no one should do her any harm. And the queen
went on quietly sewing the shirts and caring for nothing else. The next
time that a fine boy was born, the wicked step-mother used the same
deceit, but the king would give no credence to her words, for he said,

"She is too tender and good to do any such thing, and if she were only
not dumb, and could justify herself, then her innocence would be as
clear as day."

When for the third time the old woman stole away the new-born child and
accused the queen, who was unable to say a word in her defence, the king
could do no other but give her up to justice, and she was sentenced to
suffer death by fire.

The day on which her sentence was to be carried out was the very last
one of the sixth year of the years during which she had neither spoken
nor laughed, to free her dear brothers from the evil spell. The six
shirts were ready, all except one which wanted the left sleeve. And when
she was led to the pile of wood, she carried the six shirts on her arm,
and when she mounted the pile and the fire was about to be kindled, all
at once she cried out aloud, for there were six swans coming flying
through the air; and she saw that her deliverance was near, and her
heart beat for joy. The swans came close up to her with rushing wings,
and stooped round her, so that she could throw the shirts over them; and
when that had been done the swan-skins fell off them, and her brothers
stood before her in their own bodies quite safe and sound; but as one
shirt wanted the left sleeve, so the youngest brother had a swan's wing
instead of a left arm. They embraced and kissed each other, and the
queen went up to the king, who looked on full of astonishment, and began
to speak to him and to say,

"Dearest husband, now I may dare to speak and tell you that I am
innocent, and have been falsely accused," and she related to him the
treachery of the step-mother, who had taken away the three children and
hidden them. And she was reconciled to the king with great joy, and the
wicked step-mother was bound to the stake on the pile of wood and burnt
to ashes.

And the king and queen lived many years with their six brothers in peace
and joy.

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY