IN times past there lived a king and queen, who said to each other every
day of their lives, "Would that we had a child!" and yet they had none.
But it happened once that when the queen was bathing, there came a frog
out of the water, and he squatted on the ground, and said to her,

"Thy wish shall be fulfilled; before a year has gone by, thou shalt
bring a daughter into the world."

And as the frog foretold, so it happened; and the queen bore a daughter
so beautiful that the king could not contain himself for joy, and he
ordained a great feast. Not only did he bid to it his relations,
friends, and acquaintances, but also the wise women, that they might be
kind and favourable to the child. There were thirteen of them in his
kingdom, but as he had only provided twelve golden plates for them to
eat from, one of them had to be left out. However, the feast was
celebrated with all splendour; and as it drew to an end, the wise women
stood forward to present to the child their wonderful gifts: one
bestowed virtue, one beauty, a third riches, and so on, whatever there
is in the world to wish for. And when eleven of them had said their say,
in came the uninvited thirteenth, burning to revenge herself, and
without greeting or respect, she cried with a loud voice,

"In the fifteenth year of her age the princess shall prick herself with
a spindle and shall fall down dead."

And without speaking one more word she turned away and left the hall.
Every one was terrified at her saying, when the twelfth came forward,
for she had not yet bestowed her gift, and though she could not do away
with the evil prophecy, yet she could soften it, so she said,

"The princess shall not die, but fall into a deep sleep for a hundred
years."

Now the king, being desirous of saving his child even from this
misfortune, gave commandment that all the spindles in his kingdom should
be burnt up.

The maiden grew up, adorned with all the gifts of the wise women; and
she was so lovely, modest, sweet, and kind and clever, that no one who
saw her could help loving her.

It happened one day, she being already fifteen years old, that the king
and queen rode abroad, and the maiden was left behind alone in the
castle. She wandered about into all the nooks and corners, and into all
the chambers and parlours, as the fancy took her, till at last she came
to an old tower. She climbed the narrow winding stair which led to a
little door, with a rusty key sticking out of the lock; she turned the
key, and the door opened, and there in the little room sat an old woman
with a spindle, diligently spinning her flax.

"Good day, mother," said the princess, "what are you doing?"

"I am spinning," answered the old woman, nodding her head.