"What thing is that that twists round so briskly?" asked the maiden, and
taking the spindle into her hand she began to spin; but no sooner had
she touched it than the evil prophecy was fulfilled, and she pricked her
finger with it. In that very moment she fell back upon the bed that
stood there, and lay in a deep sleep. And this sleep fell upon the whole
castle; the king and queen, who had returned and were in the great hall,
fell fast asleep, and with them the whole court. The horses in their
stalls, the dogs in the yard, the pigeons on the roof, the flies on the
wall, the very fire that flickered on the hearth, became still, and
slept like the rest; and the meat on the spit ceased roasting, and the
cook, who was going to pull the scullion's hair for some mistake he had
made, let him go, and went to sleep. And the wind ceased, and not a leaf
fell from the trees about the castle.

Then round about that place there grew a hedge of thorns thicker every
year, until at last the whole castle was hidden from view, and nothing
of it could be seen but the vane on the roof. And a rumour went abroad
in all that country of the beautiful sleeping Rosamond, for so was the
princess called; and from time to time many kings' sons came and tried
to force their way through the hedge; but it was impossible for them to
do so, for the thorns held fast together like strong hands, and the
young men were caught by them, and not being able to get free, there
died a lamentable death.

Many a long year afterwards there came a king's son into that country,
and heard an old man tell how there should be a castle standing behind
the hedge of thorns, and that there a beautiful enchanted princess named
Rosamond had slept for a hundred years, and with her the king and queen,
and the whole court. The old man had been told by his grandfather that
many king's sons had sought to pass the thorn-hedge, but had been caught
and pierced by the thorns, and had died a miserable death. Then said the
young man, "Nevertheless, I do not fear to try; I shall win through and
see the lovely Rosamond." The good old man tried to dissuade him, but he
would not listen to his words.