A KING had a daughter who was beautiful beyond measure, but so proud and
overbearing that none of her suitors were good enough for her; she not
only refused one after the other, but made a laughing-stock of them.
Once the king appointed a great feast, and bade all the marriageable men
to it from far and near. And they were all put in rows, according to
their rank and station; first came the kings, then the princes, the
dukes, the earls, the barons, and lastly the noblemen. The princess was
led in front of the rows, but she had a mocking epithet for each. One
was too fat, "What a tub!" said she. Another too tall, "Long and lean is
ill to be seen," said she. A third too short, "Fat and short, not fit to
court," said she. A fourth was too pale, "A regular death's-head;" a
fifth too red-faced, "A game-cock," she called him. The sixth was not
well-made enough, "Green wood ill dried!" cried she. So every one had
something against him, and she made especially merry over a good king
who was very tall, and whose chin had grown a little peaked.

"Only look," cried she, laughing, "he has a chin like a thrush's beak."

And from that time they called him King Thrushbeard. But the old king,
when he saw that his daughter mocked every one, and scorned all the
assembled suitors, swore in his anger that she should have the first
beggar that came to the door for a husband.

A few days afterwards came a travelling ballad-singer, and sang under
the window in hopes of a small alms. When the king heard of it, he said
that he must come in. And so the ballad-singer entered in his dirty
tattered garments, and sang before the king and his daughter; when he
had done, he asked for a small reward. But the king said,

"Thy song has so well pleased me, that I will give thee my daughter to
wife."

The princess was horrified; but the king said,

"I took an oath to give you to the first beggar that came, and so it
must be done."

There was no remedy. The priest was fetched, and she had to be married
to the ballad-singer out of hand. When all was done, the king said,

"Now, as you are a beggar-wife, you can stay no longer in my castle, so
off with you and your husband."

The beggar-man led her away, and she was obliged to go forth with him on
foot. On the way they came to a great wood, and she asked,

"Oh, whose is this forest, so thick and so fine?"

He answered,

"It is King Thrushbeard's, and might have been thine."

And she cried,

"Oh, I was a silly young thing, I'm afeared,
    Would I had taken that good King Thrushbeard!"

Then they passed through a meadow, and she asked,

"Oh, whose is this meadow, so green and so fine?"

He answered,

"It is King Thrushbeard's, and might have been thine."