And she cried,

"I was a silly young thing, I'm afeared,
    Would I had taken that good King Thrushbeard!"

Then they passed through a great town, and she asked,

"Whose is this city, so great and so fine?"

He answered,

"Oh, it is King Thrushbeard's, and might have been thine."

And she cried,

"I was a silly young thing, I'm afeared,
    Would I had taken that good King Thrushbeard!"

Then said the beggar-man,

"It does not please me to hear you always wishing for another husband;
am I not good enough for you?"

At last they came to a very small house, and she said,

"Oh dear me! what poor little house do I see?
    And whose, I would know, may the wretched hole be?"

The man answered,

"That is my house and thine, where we must live together."

She had to stoop before she could go in at the door.

"Where are the servants?" asked the king's daughter.

"What servants?" answered the beggar-man, "what you want to have done
you must do yourself. Make a fire quick, and put on water, and cook me
some food; I am very tired."

But the king's daughter understood nothing about fire-making and
cooking, and the beggar-man had to lend a hand himself in order to
manage it at all. And when they had eaten their poor fare, they went to
bed; but the man called up his wife very early in the morning, in order
to clean the house. For a few days they lived in this indifferent
manner, until they came to the end of their store.

"Wife," said the man, "this will not do, stopping here and earning
nothing; you must make baskets."

So he went out and cut willows, and brought them home; and she began to
weave them, but the hard twigs wounded her tender hands.

"I see this will not do," said the man, "you had better try spinning."

So she sat her down and tried to spin, but the harsh thread cut her soft
fingers, so that the blood flowed.

"Look now!" said the man, "you are no good at any sort of work; I made a
bad bargain when I took you. I must see what I can do to make a trade
of pots and earthen vessels; you can sit in the market and offer them
for sale."

"Oh dear!" thought she, "suppose while I am selling in the market people
belonging to my father's kingdom should see me, how they would mock at
me!"

But there was no help for it; she had to submit, or else die of hunger.