"Away with you then, poor child;" for he thought the wild animals would
be sure to devour her, and it was as if a stone had been rolled away
from his heart when he spared to put her to death. Just at that moment a
young wild boar came running by, so he caught and killed it, and taking
out its heart, he brought it to the queen for a token. And it was salted
and cooked, and the wicked woman ate it up, thinking that there was an
end of Snow-white.

Now, when the poor child found herself quite alone in the wild woods,
she felt full of terror, even of the very leaves on the trees, and she
did not know what to do for fright. Then she began to run over the sharp
stones and through the thorn bushes, and the wild beasts after her, but
they did her no harm. She ran as long as her feet would carry her; and
when the evening drew near she came to a little house, and she went
inside to rest. Everything there was very small, but as pretty and clean
as possible. There stood the little table ready laid, and covered with a
white cloth, and seven little plates, and seven knives and forks, and
drinking-cups. By the wall stood seven little beds, side by side,
covered with clean white quilts. Snow-white, being very hungry and
thirsty, ate from each plate a little porridge and bread, and drank out
of each little cup a drop of wine, so as not to finish up one portion
alone. After that she felt so tired that she lay down on one of the
beds, but it did not seem to suit her; one was too long, another too
short, but at last the seventh was quite right; and so she lay down upon
it, committed herself to heaven, and fell asleep.

When it was quite dark, the masters of the house came home. They were
seven dwarfs, whose occupation was to dig underground among the
mountains. When they had lighted their seven candles, and it was quite
light in the little house, they saw that some one must have been in, as
everything was not in the same order in which they left it. The first
said,

"Who has been sitting in my little chair?"

The second said,

"Who has been eating from my little plate?"

The third said,

"Who has been taking my little loaf?"

The fourth said,

"Who has been tasting my porridge?"

The fifth said,

"Who has been using my little fork?"

The sixth said,

"Who has been cutting with my little knife?"

The seventh said,

"Who has been drinking from my little cup?"

Then the first one, looking round, saw a hollow in his bed, and cried,

"Who has been lying on my bed?"

And the others came running, and cried,

"Some one has been on our beds too!"