The dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found Snow-white lying
on the ground, and there came no breath out of her mouth, and she was
dead. They lifted her up, sought if anything poisonous was to be found,
cut her laces, combed her hair, washed her with water and wine, but all
was of no avail, the poor child was dead, and remained dead. Then they
laid her on a bier, and sat all seven of them round it, and wept and
lamented three whole days. And then they would have buried her, but that
she looked still as if she were living, with her beautiful blooming
cheeks. So they said,

"We cannot hide her away in the black ground." And they had made a
coffin of clear glass, so as to be looked into from all sides, and they
laid her in it, and wrote in golden letters upon it her name, and that
she was a king's daughter. Then they set the coffin out upon the
mountain, and one of them always remained by it to watch. And the birds
came too, and mourned for Snow-white, first an owl, then a raven, and
lastly, a dove.

Now, for a long while Snow-white lay in the coffin and never changed,
but looked as if she were asleep, for she was still as white as snow,
as red as blood, and her hair was as black as ebony. It happened,
however, that one day a king's son rode through the wood and up to the
dwarfs' house, which was near it. He saw on the mountain the coffin, and
beautiful Snow-white within it, and he read what was written in golden
letters upon it. Then he said to the dwarfs,

"Let me have the coffin, and I will give you whatever you like to ask
for it."

But the dwarfs told him that they could not part with it for all the
gold in the world. But he said,

"I beseech you to give it me, for I cannot live without looking upon
Snow-white; if you consent I will bring you to great honour, and care
for you as if you were my brethren."

When he so spoke the good little dwarfs had pity upon him and gave him
the coffin, and the king's son called his servants and bid them carry it
away on their shoulders. Now it happened that as they were going along
they stumbled over a bush, and with the shaking the bit of poisoned
apple flew out of her throat. It was not long before she opened her
eyes, threw up the cover of the coffin, and sat up, alive and well.

"Oh dear! where am I?" cried she. The king's son answered, full of joy,
"You are near me," and, relating all that had happened, he said,

"I would rather have you than anything in the world; come with me to my
father's castle and you shall be my bride."