And Snow-white was kind, and went with him, and their wedding was held
with pomp and great splendour.

But Snow-white's wicked step-mother was also bidden to the feast, and
when she had dressed herself in beautiful clothes she went to her
looking-glass and said,

"Looking-glass upon the wall,
    Who is fairest of us all?"

The looking-glass answered,

"O Queen, although you are of beauty rare,
    The young bride is a thousand times more fair."

Then she railed and cursed, and was beside herself with disappointment
and anger. First she thought she would not go to the wedding; but then
she felt she should have no peace until she went and saw the bride. And
when she saw her she knew her for Snow-white, and could not stir from
the place for anger and terror. For they had ready red-hot iron shoes,
in which she had to dance until she fell down dead.

The KNAPSACK, the HAT, and the HORN

ONCE there were three brothers, and they grew poorer and poorer, until
at last their need was so great that they had nothing left to bite or to
break. Then they said, "This will not do; we had better go out into the
world and seek our fortune."

So they set out, and went some distance through many green fields, but
they met with no good fortune. One day they came to a great wood, in the
midst of which was a hill, and when they came near to it, they saw that
it was all of silver. Then said the eldest,

"Now here is good fortune enough for me, and I desire no better."

And he took of the silver as much as he could carry, turned round, and
went back home. But the other two said,

"We must have something better than mere silver," and they would not
touch it, but went on farther. After they had gone on a few days longer,
they came to a hill that was all of gold. The second brother stood still
and considered, and was uncertain.

"What shall I do?" said he; "shall I take of the gold enough to last me
my life, or shall I go farther?"

At last, coming to a conclusion, he filled his pockets as full as they
would hold, bid good-bye to his brother, and went home. But the third
brother said to himself,

"Silver and gold do not tempt me; I will not gainsay fortune, who has
better things in store for me."