"This is a hard nut to crack; there is no choice but for me to do as he
asks; if I wish to have peace and keep the crown on my head, I must give
in to him."

So the wedding took place, but the king's daughter was angry that the
bridegroom should be a common man, who wore a shabby hat, and carried an
old knapsack. She wished very much to get rid of him, and thought day
and night how to manage it. Then it struck her that perhaps all his
wonder-working power lay in the knapsack, and she pretended to be very
fond of him, and when she had brought him into a good humour she
said,--"Pray lay aside that ugly knapsack; it misbecomes you so much
that I feel ashamed of you."

"My dear child," answered he, "this knapsack is my greatest treasure; so
long as I keep it I need not fear anything in the whole world," and then
he showed her with what wonderful qualities it was endowed. Then she
fell on his neck as if she would have kissed him, but, by a clever
trick, she slipped the knapsack over his shoulder and ran away with it.
As soon as she was alone she struck upon it and summoned the soldiers,
and bade them seize her husband and bring him to the king's palace. They
obeyed, and the false woman had many more to follow behind, so as to be
ready to drive him out of the country. He would have been quite done for
if he had not still kept the hat. As soon as he could get his hands free
he pulled it twice forward on his head; and then the cannon began to
thunder and beat all down, till at last the king's daughter had to come
and to beg pardon. And as she so movingly prayed and promised to behave
better, he raised her up and made peace with her. Then she grew very
kind to him, and seemed to love him very much, and he grew so deluded,
that one day he confided to her that even if he were deprived of his
knapsack nothing could be done against him as long as he should keep the
old hat. And when she knew the secret she waited until he had gone to
sleep; then she carried off the hat, and had him driven out into the
streets. Still the horn remained to him, and in great wrath he blew a
great blast upon it, and down came walls and fortresses, towns and
villages, and buried the king and his daughter among their ruins. If he
had not set down the horn when he did, and if he had blown a little
longer, all the houses would have tumbled down, and there would not have
been left one stone upon another. After this no one dared to withstand
him, and he made himself king over the whole country.

RUMPELSTILTSKIN