THERE was once a miller who was poor, but he had one beautiful daughter.
It happened one day that he came to speak with the king, and, to give
himself consequence, he told him that he had a daughter who could spin
gold out of straw. The king said to the miller,

"That is an art that pleases me well; if thy daughter is as clever as
you say, bring her to my castle to-morrow, that I may put her to the
proof."

When the girl was brought to him, he led her into a room that was quite
full of straw, and gave her a wheel and spindle, and said,

"Now set to work, and if by the early morning thou hast not spun this
straw to gold thou shalt die." And he shut the door himself, and left
her there alone.

And so the poor miller's daughter was left there sitting, and could not
think what to do for her life; she had no notion how to set to work to
spin gold from straw, and her distress grew so great that she began to
weep. Then all at once the door opened, and in came a little man, who
said,

"Good evening, miller's daughter; why are you crying?"

"Oh!" answered the girl, "I have got to spin gold out of straw, and I
don't understand the business."

Then the little man said,

"What will you give me if I spin it for you?"

"My necklace," said the girl.

The little man took the necklace, seated himself before the wheel, and
whirr, whirr, whirr! three times round and the bobbin was full; then he
took up another, and whirr, whirr, whirr! three times round, and that
was full; and so he went on till the morning, when all the straw had
been spun, and all the bobbins were full of gold. At sunrise came the
king, and when he saw the gold he was astonished and very much rejoiced,
for he was very avaricious. He had the miller's daughter taken into
another room filled with straw, much bigger than the last, and told her
that as she valued her life she must spin it all in one night. The girl
did not know what to do, so she began to cry, and then the door opened,
and the little man appeared and said,

"What will you give me if I spin all this straw into gold?"

"The ring from my finger," answered the girl.

So the little man took the ring, and began again to send the wheel
whirring round, and by the next morning all the straw was spun into
glistening gold. The king was rejoiced beyond measure at the sight, but
as he could never have enough of gold, he had the miller's daughter
taken into a still larger room full of straw, and said,