"To-day do I bake, to-morrow I brew,
    The day after that the queen's child comes in;
    And oh! I am glad that nobody knew
    That the name I am called is Rumpelstiltskin!"

You cannot think how pleased the queen was to hear that name, and soon
afterwards, when the little man walked in and said, "Now, Mrs. Queen,
what is my name?" she said at first,

"Are you called Jack?"

"No," answered he.

"Are you called Harry?" she asked again.

"No," answered he. And then she said,

"Then perhaps your name is Rumpelstiltskin!"

"The devil told you that! the devil told you that!" cried the little
man, and in his anger he stamped with his right foot so hard that it
went into the ground above his knee; then he seized his left foot with
both his hands in such a fury that he split in two, and there was an end
of him.

ROLAND

THERE was once a woman who was a witch, and she had two daughters, one
ugly and wicked, whom she loved the best, because she was her very own
daughter, and one pretty and good, whom she hated because she was her
step-daughter. One day the step-daughter put on a pretty apron, which
the other daughter liked so much that she became envious, and said to
her mother that she must and should have the apron.

"Be content, my child," said the old woman, "thou shalt have it. Thy
step-sister has long deserved death, and to-night, while she is asleep,
I shall come and cut off her head. Take care to lie at the farthest side
of the bed, and push her to the outside."

And it would have been all over with the poor girl, if she had not been
standing in a corner near and heard it all. She did not dare to go
outside the door the whole day long, and when bed-time came the other
one got into bed first, so as to lie on the farthest side; but when she
had gone to sleep, the step-daughter pushed her towards the outside, and
took the inside place next the wall. In the night the old woman came
sneaking; in her right hand she held an axe, and with her left she felt
for the one who was lying outside, and then she heaved up the axe with
both hands, and hewed the head off her only daughter.

When she had gone away, the other girl got up and went to her
sweetheart's, who was called Roland, and knocked at his door. When he
came to her, she said,

"Listen, dear Roland, we must flee away in all haste; my step-mother
meant to put me to death, but she has killed her only child instead.
When the day breaks, and she sees what she has done, we are lost."