"But I advise you," said Roland, "to bring away her magic wand with you;
otherwise we cannot escape her when she comes after to overtake us." So
the maiden fetched the magic wand, and she took up the head of her
step-sister and let drop three drops of blood on the ground,--one by the
bed, one in the kitchen, and one on the steps. Then she hastened back to
her sweetheart.

When the old witch got up in the morning, she called out to her
daughter, to give her the apron, but no daughter came. Then she cried
out, "Where art thou?"

"Here, at the steps, sweeping!" answered one of the drops of blood.

The old woman went out, but she saw nobody at the steps, and cried
again, "Where art thou?"

"Here in the kitchen warming myself," cried the second drop of blood.

So she went into the kitchen and found no one. Then she cried again,
"Where art thou?"

"Oh, here in bed fast asleep!" cried the third drop of blood.

Then the mother went into the room, and up to the bed, and there lay her
only child, whose head she had cut off herself. The witch fell into a
great fury, rushed to the window, for from it she could see far and
wide, and she caught sight of her step-daughter, hastening away with her
dear Roland.

"It will be no good to you," cried she, "if you get ever so far away,
you cannot escape me." Then she put on her boots, which took her an
hour's walk at every stride, and it was not long before she had
overtaken them. But the maiden, when she saw the old woman striding up,
changed, by means of the magic wand, her dear Roland into a lake, and
herself into a duck swimming upon it. The witch stood on the bank and
threw in crumbs of bread, and took great pains to decoy the duck towards
her, but the duck would not be decoyed, and the old woman was obliged
to go back in the evening disappointed. Then the maiden and her dear
Roland took again their natural shapes, and travelled on the whole night
through until daybreak. Then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful
flower, standing in the middle of a hedge of thorns, and her dear Roland
into a fiddle-player. It was not long before the witch came striding up,
and she said to the musician,

"Dear musician, will you be so kind as to reach that pretty flower for
me?"

"Oh yes," said he, "I will strike up a tune to it."