"How can a silly beast give one any rational advice?" thought the king's
son, and let fly at the fox, but missed him, and he stretched out his
tail and ran quick into the wood. Then the young man went on his way,
and towards evening he came to the village, and there stood the two
taverns; in one singing and dancing was going on, the other looked quite
dull and wretched. "I should be a fool," said he, "to go into that
dismal place, while there is anything so good close by." So he went into
the merry inn, and there lived in clover, quite forgetting the bird and
his father, and all good counsel.

As time went on, and the eldest son never came home, the second son set
out to seek the golden bird. He met with the fox, just as the eldest
did, and received good advice from him without attending to it. And when
he came to the two taverns, his brother was standing and calling to him
at the window of one of them, out of which came sounds of merriment; so
he could not resist, but went in and revelled to his heart's content.

And then, as time went on, the youngest son wished to go forth, and to
try his luck, but his father would not consent.

"It would be useless," said he; "he is much less likely to find the bird
than his brothers, and if any misfortune were to happen to him he would
not know how to help himself; his wits are none of the best."

But at last, as there was no peace to be had, he let him go. By the side
of the wood sat the fox, begged him to spare his life, and gave him good
counsel. The young man was kind, and said,

"Be easy, little fox, I will do you no harm."

"You shall not repent of it," answered the fox, "and that you may get
there all the sooner, get up and sit on my tail."

And no sooner had he done so than the fox began to run, and off they
went over stock and stone, so that the wind whistled in their hair. When
they reached the village the young man got down, and, following the
fox's advice, went into the mean-looking tavern, without hesitating, and
there he passed a quiet night. The next morning, when he went out into
the field, the fox, who was sitting there already, said,