Then the fox stretched out his tail, and the king's son seated himself
upon it, and away they went over stock and stone until the wind whistled
through their hair. And everything happened just as the fox had said,
and he came to the stall where the golden horse was: and as he was about
to put on him the plain saddle, he thought to himself,

"Such a beautiful animal would be disgraced were I not to put on him the
good saddle, which becomes him so well." However, no sooner did the
horse feel the golden saddle touch him than he began to neigh. And the
grooms all awoke, seized the king's son and threw him into prison. The
next morning he was delivered up to justice and condemned to death, but
the king promised him his life, and also to bestow upon him the golden
horse, if he could convey thither the beautiful princess of the golden
castle.

With a heavy heart the king's son set out, but by great good luck he
soon met with the faithful fox.

"I ought now to leave you to your own ill-luck," said the fox, "but I am
sorry for you, and will once more help you in your need. Your way lies
straight up to the golden castle: you will arrive there in the evening,
and at night, when all is quiet, the beautiful princess goes to the
bath. And as she is entering the bathing-house, go up to her and give
her a kiss, then she will follow you, and you can lead her away; but do
not suffer her first to go and take leave of her parents, or it will go
ill with you."

Then the fox stretched out his tail; the king's son seated himself upon
it, and away they went over stock and stone, so that the wind whistled
through their hair. And when he came to the golden castle, all was as
the fox had said. He waited until midnight, when all lay in deep sleep,
and then as the beautiful princess went to the bathing-house he went up
to her and gave her a kiss, and she willingly promised to go with him,
but she begged him earnestly, and with tears, that he would let her
first go and take leave of her parents. At first he denied her prayer,
but as she wept so much the more, and fell at his feet, he gave in at
last. And no sooner had the princess reached her father's bedside than
he, and all who were in the castle, waked up, and the young man was
seized and thrown into prison.

The next morning the king said to him,

"Thy life is forfeit, but thou shalt find grace if thou canst level that
mountain that lies before my windows, and over which I am not able to
see: and if this is done within eight days thou shalt have my daughter
for a reward."