So the king's son set to work, and dug and shovelled away without
ceasing, but when, on the seventh day, he saw how little he had
accomplished, and that all his work was as nothing, he fell into great
sadness, and gave up all hope. But on the evening of the seventh day the
fox appeared, and said,

"You do not deserve that I should help you, but go now and lie down to
sleep, and I will do the work for you."

The next morning when he awoke, and looked out of the window, the
mountain had disappeared. The young man hastened full of joy to the
king, and told him that his behest was fulfilled, and, whether the king
liked it or not, he had to keep to his word, and let his daughter go.

So they both went away together, and it was not long before the faithful
fox came up to them.

"Well, you have got the best first," said he; "but you must know the
golden horse belongs to the princess of the golden castle."

"But how shall I get it?" asked the young man.

"I am going to tell you," answered the fox. "First, go to the king who
sent you to the golden castle, and take to him the beautiful princess.
There will then be very great rejoicing; he will willingly give you the
golden horse, and they will lead him out to you; then mount him without
delay, and stretch out your hand to each of them to take leave, and last
of all to the princess, and when you have her by the hand swing her up
on the horse behind you, and off you go! nobody will be able to overtake
you, for that horse goes swifter than the wind."

And so it was all happily done, and the king's son carried off the
beautiful princess on the golden horse. The fox did not stay behind, and
he said to the young man,

"Now, I will help you to get the golden bird. When you draw near the
castle where the bird is, let the lady alight, and I will take her under
my care; then you must ride the golden horse into the castle-yard, and
there will be great rejoicing to see it, and they will bring out to you
the golden bird; as soon as you have the cage in your hand, you must
start off back to us, and then you shall carry the lady away."

The plan was successfully carried out; and when the young man returned
with the treasure, the fox said,

"Now, what will you give me for my reward?"

"What would you like?" asked the young man.

"When we are passing through the wood, I desire that you should slay me,
and cut my head and feet off."

"That were a strange sign of gratitude," said the king's son, "and I
could not possibly do such a thing."

Then said the fox,