A poor beggar-man was sitting by the path, and the young man changed
clothes with him, and went clad in that wise into the king's courtyard.
Nobody knew him, but the bird began to chirp, and the horse began to
feed, and the beautiful princess ceased weeping.

"What does this mean?" said the king, astonished.

The princess answered,

"I cannot tell, except that I was sad, and now I am joyful; it is to me
as if my rightful bridegroom had returned."

Then she told him all that happened, although the two brothers had
threatened to put her to death if she let out anything. The king then
ordered every person who was in the castle to be brought before him, and
with the rest came the young man like a beggar in his wretched garments;
but the princess knew him, and greeted him well, falling on his neck and
kissing him. The wicked brothers were seized and put to death, and the
youngest brother was married to the princess, and succeeded to the
inheritance of his father.

But what became of the poor fox? Long afterwards the king's son was
going through the wood, and the fox met him and said,

"Now, you have everything that you can wish for, but my misfortunes
never come to an end, and it lies in your power to free me from them."
And once more he prayed the king's son earnestly to slay him, and cut
off his head and feet. So, at last, he consented, and no sooner was it
done than the fox was changed into a man, and was no other than the
brother of the beautiful princess; and thus he was set free from a spell
that had bound him for a long, long time.

And now, indeed, there lacked nothing to their happiness as long as they
lived.

The DOG and the SPARROW

THERE was once a sheep-dog whose master behaved ill to him and did not
give him enough to eat, and when for hunger he could bear it no longer,
he left his service very sadly. In the street he was met by a sparrow,
who said,

"Dog, my brother, why are you so sad?"

And the dog answered,

"I am hungry and have nothing to eat."

Then said the sparrow,

"Dear brother, come with me into the town; I will give you plenty."

Then they went together into the town, and soon they came to a butcher's
stall, and the sparrow said to the dog,

"Stay here while I reach you down a piece of meat," and he perched on
the stall, looked round to see that no one noticed him, and pecked,
pulled, and dragged so long at a piece that lay near the edge of the
board that at last it slid to the ground. The dog picked it up, ran with
it into a corner, and ate it up. Then said the sparrow,