"Now come with me to another stall, and I will get you another piece, so
that your hunger may be satisfied."

When the dog had devoured a second piece the sparrow asked,

"Dog, my brother, are you satisfied now?"

"Yes, as to meat I am," answered he, "but I have had no bread."

Then said the sparrow,

"That also shall you have; come with me." And he led him to a baker's
stall and pecked at a few little rolls until they fell to the ground,
and as the dog still wanted more, they went to another stall farther on
and got more bread. When that was done the sparrow said,

"Dog, my brother, are you satisfied yet?"

"Yes," answered he, "and now we will walk a little outside the town."

And they went together along the high road. It was warm weather, and
when they had gone a little way the dog said,

"I am tired, and would like to go to sleep."

"Well, do so," said the sparrow; "in the meanwhile I will sit near on a
bough." The dog laid himself in the road and fell fast asleep, and as he
lay there a waggoner came up with a waggon and three horses, laden with
two casks of wine; the sparrow, seeing that he was not going to turn
aside but kept in the beaten track, just where the dog lay, cried out,

"Waggoner, take care, or you shall suffer for it!"

But the waggoner, muttering, "What harm can you do to me?" cracked his
whip and drove his waggon over the dog, and he was crushed to death by
the wheels. Then the sparrow cried,

"Thou hast killed the dog my brother, and it shall cost thee horses and
cart!"

"Oh! horses and cart!" said the waggoner, "what harm can you do me, I
should like to know?" and drove on. The sparrow crept under the covering
of the waggon and pecked at the bung-hole of one of the casks until the
cork came out, and all the wine ran out without the waggoner noticing.
After a while, looking round, he saw that something dripped from the
waggon, and on examining the casks he found that one of them was empty,
and he cried out,

"I am a ruined man!"

"Not ruined enough yet!" said the sparrow, and flying to one of the
horses he perched on his head and pecked at his eyes. When the waggoner
saw that he took out his axe to hit the sparrow, who at that moment flew
aloft, and the waggoner missing him struck the horse on the head, so
that he fell down dead.

"Oh, I am a ruined man!" cried he.

"Not ruined enough yet!" said the sparrow, and as the waggoner drove on
with the two horses that were left the sparrow crept again under the
waggon-covering and pecked the cork out of the second cask, so that all
the wine leaked out. When the waggoner became aware of it, he cried out
again,