"Very well," said Fred, "we will try; only let us take some bread and
cheese with us, that we may have something to eat on the way."

"All right," she answered. So they set out, and as Fred was a better
walker than Kate, she was soon left behind.

"All the better for me," said she, "for when we turn back I shall have
so much the less distance to go."

And they came to a mountain, where, on both sides of the road, there
were deep cart-ruts. And Kate said to herself,

"How sad to see the poor earth torn, and vexed, and oppressed in this
way! it will never be healed again in all its life."

And with a compassionate heart, she took out her butter and smeared the
cart-ruts right and left, so that they might not be so cut by the
wheels; and as she was stooping to perform this merciful act a cheese
fell out of her pocket and rolled down the mountain. And Kate said,

"I have walked over the ground once, and I am not going to do it again,
but another shall run after that cheese, and bring it back." So saying,
she took another cheese, and rolled it after the first one: and as it
did not seem to be coming back again, she sent a third racing after
them, thinking, "Perhaps they are waiting for company, and are not used
to travelling alone." But when they all three delayed coming, she said,

"I can't think what this means! perhaps it is that the third one has
lost his way, so I will send a fourth that he may call out to him as he
goes by." But it went no better with the fourth than with the third. And
Kate lost all patience and threw down the fifth and sixth, and that was
all. A long while she stood and waited for them to come up, but as still
they did not come, she said,

"Oh, it's like sending good money after bad; there is no getting you
back again. If you suppose I am going to wait for you any longer, you
are very much mistaken: I shall go on my way and you may overtake me;
your legs are younger than mine." Kate then went on until she overtook
Fred, who was standing still and waiting, as he wanted something to eat.

"Now, be quick," he said, "and hand over what you have brought." And she
handed him the dry bread.

"Now for the butter and the cheese," said the man.

"O Fred," said Kate, "I anointed the cart-ruts with the butter, and the
cheeses will soon be here, they are upon the road; one of them ran away,
and I sent the others to fetch it back."

Then said Fred,

"It was very wrong of you, Kate, to waste the butter, and roll the
cheeses down the hill."

And Kate answered, "Well then, you should have told me so."

As they were eating the dry bread together, Fred said,