After a while, as the door still weighed her down heavily, Kate said, "O
Fred, I must pour away the vinegar;" and he answered,

"No, Kate, you must not do that; we might be discovered."

"Oh dear me, Fred, but I must! it weighs me down so!"

"Then do it, if you must, in the name of all that's tormenting!"

And she poured out the vinegar, so that the men were all besprinkled.

And they said one to another,

"The morning dew is beginning to fall already."

At last Kate began to think that it must really be the door that weighed
so heavy, and she said,

"Fred, I must throw down the door!" and he answered,

"No, Kate, not now; we might be discovered."

"Oh dear me, Fred, but I must! it weighs me down so."

"No, Kate, you must hold it fast."

"O Fred, it's slipping, it's falling!"

"Well then, let it fall in the name of torment!" cried Fred in a
passion. And so it fell with a great crash, and the thieves below cried,

"There is something wrong about this tree!" and they got up in a great
hurry and ran off, leaving their spoil behind them. And early in the
morning when Fred and Kate came down from the tree they got all their
gold again and carried it home.

And when they reached their house again Fred said,

"Now, Kate, you must fall to and be very industrious and work hard."

"All right, Fred, I will go into the field and cut corn," said she.

And when she came into the field she said to herself,

"Shall I eat before I cut, or shall I sleep before I cut? well, I will
eat first." And so she ate, and after that she felt sleepy, but she
began to cut and went on half asleep cutting her own clothes, skirts,
gown, and all, and when she at last woke up and found herself in rags,
she said to herself,

"Is this really I or not? oh dear, it is not I!"

After a while night came on, and Kate ran into the village and knocked
at her husband's door calling out, "Fred!"

"What is it?" said he.

"I want to know if Kate is at home," said she.

"Oh yes," he answered, "she is lying here fast asleep."

So she said to herself, "All right then, I am certainly at home," and
she ran on farther.

Soon she came upon some thieves who were looking about for something to
steal, and she went up to them and offered to help them, and the thieves
thought she knew of a good place and opportunity, and were glad of her
offer. But Kate walked in front of the houses calling out,

"Good people, what have you for us to steal?"

So the thieves thought to themselves, "This will never do," and wished
themselves quit of her. At last they said to her,