"Come along, and keep me company!" The Little Farmer did not wait to be
asked twice, but sat down and ate. After a while the miller noticed the
skin lying on the ground with the raven wrapped up in it, and he said,
"What have you got there?"

The Little Farmer answered, "A fortune-teller."

And the miller asked "Can he tell my fortune?"

"Why not?" answered the Little Farmer. "He will tell four things, and
the fifth he keeps to himself." Now the miller became very curious, and
said, "Ask him to say something."

And the Little Farmer pinched the raven, so that it croaked, "Crr, crr."
"What does he say?" asked the miller. And the Little Farmer answered,

"First he says that there is wine under the pillow."

"That would be jolly!" cried the miller, and he went to look, and found
the wine, and then asked, "What next?"

So the Little Farmer made the raven croak again, and then said,

"He says, secondly, that there is roast meat in the oven."

"That would be jolly!" cried the miller, and he went and looked, and
found the roast meat. The Little Farmer made the fortune-teller speak
again, and then said,

"He says, thirdly, that there is salad in the bed."

"That would be jolly!" cried the miller, and went and looked, and found
the salad. Once more the Little Farmer pinched the raven, so that he
croaked, and said,

"He says, fourthly and lastly, that there are cakes under the bed."

"That would be jolly!" cried the miller, and he went and looked, and
found the cakes.

And now the two sat down to table, and the miller's wife felt very
uncomfortable, and she went to bed and took all the keys with her. The
miller was eager to know what the fifth thing could be, but the Little
Farmer said,

"Suppose we eat the four things in peace first, for the fifth thing is a
great deal worse."

So they sat and ate, and while they ate, they bargained together as to
how much the miller would give for knowing the fifth thing; and at last
they agreed upon three hundred dollars. Then the Little Farmer pinched
the raven, so that he croaked aloud. And the miller asked what he said,
and the Little Farmer answered,

"He says that there is a demon in the linen-closet."

"Then," said the miller, "that demon must out of the linen-closet," and
he unbarred the house-door, while the Little Farmer got the key of the
linen-closet from the miller's wife, and opened it. Then the man rushed
forth, and out of the house, and the miller said,

"I saw the black rogue with my own eyes; so that is a good riddance."

And the Little Farmer took himself off by daybreak next morning with the
three hundred dollars.

And after this the Little Farmer by degrees got on in the world, and
built himself a good house, and the other farmers said,