"Surely the Little Farmer has been where it rains gold pieces, and has
brought home money by the bushel."

And he was summoned before the bailiff to say whence his riches came.
And all he said was,

"I sold my calf's skin for three hundred dollars."

When the other farmers heard this they wished to share such good luck,
and ran home, killed all their cows, skinned them in order to sell them
also for the same high price as the Little Farmer. And the bailiff
said, "I must be beforehand with them." So he sent his servant into the
town to the skin-buyer, and he only gave her three dollars for the skin,
and that was faring better than the others, for when they came, they did
not get as much as that, for the skin-buyer said,

"What am I to do with all these skins?"

Now the other farmers were very angry with the Little Farmer for
misleading them, and they vowed vengeance against him, and went to
complain of his deceit to the bailiff. The poor Little Farmer was with
one voice sentenced to death, and to be put into a cask with holes in
it, and rolled into the water. So he was led to execution, and a priest
was fetched to say a mass for him, and the rest of the people had to
stand at a distance. As soon as the Little Farmer caught sight of the
priest he knew him for the man who was hid in the linen-closet at the
miller's. And he said to him,

"As I let you out of the cupboard, you must let me out of the cask."

At that moment a shepherd passed with a flock of sheep, and the Little
Farmer knowing him to have a great wish to become bailiff himself,
called out with all his might,

"No, I will not, and if all the world asked me, I would not!"

The shepherd, hearing him, came up and asked what it was he would not
do. The Little Farmer answered,

"They want to make me bailiff, if I sit in this cask, but I will not do
it!"

The shepherd said,

"If that is all there is to do in order to become bailiff I will sit in
the cask and welcome." And the Little Farmer answered,

"Yes, that is all, just you get into the cask, and you will become
bailiff." So the shepherd agreed, and got in, and the Little Farmer
fastened on the top; then he collected the herd of sheep and drove them
away. The priest went back to the parish-assembly, and told them the
mass had been said. Then they came and began to roll the cask into the
water, and as it went the shepherd inside called out, "I consent to be
bailiff!"

They thought that it was the Little Farmer who spoke, and they
answered,

"All right; but first you must go down below and look about you a
little," and they rolled the cask into the water.