Upon that the farmers went home, and when they reached the village,
there they met the Little Farmer driving a flock of sheep, and looking
quite calm and contented. The farmers were astonished and cried,

"Little Farmer, whence come you? how did you get out of the water?"

"Oh, easily," answered he, "I sank and sank until I came to the bottom;
then I broke through the cask and came out of it, and there were
beautiful meadows and plenty of sheep feeding, so I brought away this
flock with me."

Then said the farmers, "Are there any left?"

"Oh yes," answered the Little Farmer, "more than you can possibly need."

Then the farmers agreed that they would go and fetch some sheep also,
each man a flock for himself; and the bailiff said, "Me first." And they
all went together, and in the blue sky there were little fleecy clouds
like lambkins, and they were reflected in the water; and the farmers
cried out,

"There are the sheep down there at the bottom."

When the bailiff heard that he pressed forward and said,

"I will go first and look about me, and if things look well, I will call
to you."

And he jumped plump into the water, and they all thought that the noise
he made meant "Come," so the whole company jumped in one after the
other. So perished all the proprietors of the village, and the Little
Farmer, as sole heir, became a rich man.

THE QUEEN BEE

TWO king's sons once started to seek adventures, and fell into a wild,
reckless way of living, and gave up all thoughts of going home again.
Their third and youngest brother, who was called Witling, and had
remained behind, started off to seek them; and when at last he found
them, they jeered at his simplicity in thinking that he could make his
way in the world, while they who were so much cleverer were
unsuccessful. But they all three went on together until they came to an
ant-hill, which the two eldest brothers wished to stir up, that they
might see the little ants hurry about in their fright and carrying off
their eggs, but Witling said,

"Leave the little creatures alone, I will not suffer them to be
disturbed."

And they went on farther until they came to a lake, where a number of
ducks were swimming about. The two eldest brothers wanted to catch a
couple and cook them, but Witling would not allow it, and said, "Leave
the creatures alone, I will not suffer them to be killed."

And then they came to a bee's-nest in a tree, and there was so much
honey in it that it overflowed and ran down the trunk. The two eldest
brothers then wanted to make a fire beneath the tree, that the bees
might be stifled by the smoke, and then they could get at the honey. But
Witling prevented them, saying,

"Leave the little creatures alone, I will not suffer them to be
stifled."