At last the three brothers came to a castle where there were in the
stables many horses standing, all of stone, and the brothers went
through all the rooms until they came to a door at the end secured with
three locks, and in the middle of the door a small opening through which
they could look into the room. And they saw a little grey-haired man
sitting at a table. They called out to him once, twice, and he did not
hear, but at the third time he got up, undid the locks, and came out.
Without speaking a word he led them to a table loaded with all sorts of
good things, and when they had eaten and drunk he showed to each his
bed-chamber. The next morning the little grey man came to the eldest
brother, and beckoning him, brought him to a table of stone, on which
were written three things directing by what means the castle could be
delivered from its enchantment. The first thing was, that in the wood
under the moss lay the pearls belonging to the princess--a thousand in
number--and they were to be sought for and collected, and if he who
should undertake the task had not finished it by sunset,--if but one
pearl were missing,--he must be turned to stone. So the eldest brother
went out, and searched all day, but at the end of it he had only found
one hundred; just as was said on the table of stone came to pass and he
was turned into stone. The second brother undertook the adventure next
day, but it fared with him no better than with the first; he found two
hundred pearls, and was turned into stone.

And so at last it was Witling's turn, and he began to search in the
moss; but it was a very tedious business to find the pearls, and he grew
so out of heart that he sat down on a stone and began to weep. As he was
sitting thus, up came the ant-king with five thousand ants, whose lives
had been saved through Witling's pity, and it was not very long before
the little insects had collected all the pearls and put them in a heap.

Now the second thing ordered by the table of stone was to get the key of
the princess's sleeping-chamber out of the lake.