"Father, let me go for once into the forest to cut wood;" and the father
answered, "Your brothers have hurt themselves by so doing; give it up,
you understand nothing about it."

But the Simpleton went on begging so long, that the father said at last,

"Well, be off with you; you will only learn by experience."

The mother gave him a cake (it was only made with water, and baked in
the ashes), and with it a flask of sour beer. When he came into the
forest the little old grey man met him, and greeted him, saying,

"Give me a bit of your cake, and a drink from your flask; I am so hungry
and thirsty."

And the Simpleton answered, "I have only a flour and water cake and sour
beer; but if that is good enough for you, let us sit down together and
eat." Then they sat down, and as the Simpleton took out his flour and
water cake it became a rich pancake, and his sour beer became good wine;
then they ate and drank, and afterwards the little man said,

"As you have such a kind heart, and share what you have so willingly, I
will bestow good luck upon you. Yonder stands an old tree; cut it down,
and at its roots you will find some thing," and thereupon the little man
took his departure.

The Simpleton went there, and hewed away at the tree, and when it fell
he saw, sitting among the roots, a goose with feathers of pure gold. He
lifted it out and took it with him to an inn where he intended to stay
the night. The landlord had three daughters who, when they saw the
goose, were curious to know what wonderful kind of bird it was, and
ended by longing for one of its golden feathers. The eldest thought, "I
will wait for a good opportunity, and then I will pull out one of its
feathers for myself;" and so, when the Simpleton was gone out, she
seized the goose by its wing--but there her finger and hand had to stay,
held fast. Soon after came the second sister with the same idea of
plucking out one of the golden feathers for herself; but scarcely had
she touched her sister, than she also was obliged to stay, held fast.
Lastly came the third with the same intentions; but the others screamed
out,

"Stay away! for heaven's sake stay away!"