But she did not see why she should stay away, and thought, "If they do
so, why should not I?" and went towards them. But when she reached her
sisters there she stopped, hanging on with them. And so they had to
stay, all night. The next morning the Simpleton took the goose under his
arm and went away, unmindful of the three girls that hung on to it. The
three had always to run after him, left and right, wherever his legs
carried him. In the midst of the fields they met the parson, who, when
he saw the procession, said,

"Shame on you, girls, running after a young fellow through the fields
like this," and forthwith he seized hold of the youngest by the hand to
drag her away, but hardly had he touched her when he too was obliged to
run after them himself. Not long after the sexton came that way, and
seeing the respected parson following at the heels of the three girls,
he called out,

"Ho, your reverence, whither away so quickly? You forget that we have
another christening to-day;" and he seized hold of him by his gown; but
no sooner had he touched him than he was obliged to follow on too. As
the five tramped on, one after another, two peasants with their hoes
came up from the fields, and the parson cried out to them, and begged
them to come and set him and the sexton free, but no sooner had they
touched the sexton than they had to follow on too; and now there were

daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh; therefore
the king had given out that whoever should make her laugh should have
her in marriage. The Simpleton, when he heard this, went with his goose
and his hangers-on into the presence of the king's daughter, and as soon
as she saw the seven people following always one after the other, she
burst out laughing, and seemed as if she could never stop. And so the
Simpleton earned a right to her as his bride; but the king did not like
him for a son-in-law and made all kinds of objections, and said he must
first bring a man who could drink up a whole cellar of wine. The
Simpleton thought that the little grey man would be able to help him,
and went out into the forest, and there, on the very spot where he
felled the tree, he saw a man sitting with a very sad countenance. The
Simpleton asked him what was the matter, and he answered,

"I have a great thirst, which I cannot quench: cold water does not agree
with me; I have indeed drunk up a whole cask of wine, but what good is a
drop like that?"

Then said the Simpleton,

"I can help you; only come with me, and you shall have enough."