He took him straight to the king's cellar, and the man sat himself down
before the big vats, and drank, and drank, and before a day was over he
had drunk up the whole cellar-full. The Simpleton again asked for his
bride, but the king was annoyed that a wretched fellow, called the
Simpleton by everybody, should carry off his daughter, and so he made
new conditions. He was to produce a man who could eat up a mountain of
bread. The Simpleton did not hesitate long, but ran quickly off to the
forest, and there in the same place sat a man who had fastened a strap
round his body, making a very piteous face, and saying,

"I have eaten a whole bakehouse full of rolls, but what is the use of
that when one is so hungry as I am? My stomach feels quite empty, and I
am obliged to strap myself together, that I may not die of hunger."

The Simpleton was quite glad of this, and said,

"Get up quickly, and come along with me, and you shall have enough to
eat."

He led him straight to the king's courtyard, where all the meal in the
kingdom had been collected and baked into a mountain of bread. The man
out of the forest settled himself down before it and hastened to eat,
and in one day the whole mountain had disappeared.

Then the Simpleton asked for his bride the third time. The king,
however, found one more excuse, and said he must have a ship that should
be able to sail on land or on water.

"So soon," said he, "as you come sailing along with it, you shall have
my daughter for your wife."

The Simpleton went straight to the forest, and there sat the little old
grey man with whom he had shared his cake, and he said,

"I have eaten for you, and I have drunk for you, I will also give you
the ship; and all because you were kind to me at the first."

Then he gave him the ship that could sail on land and on water, and when
the king saw it he knew he could no longer withhold his daughter. The
marriage took place immediately, and at the death of the king the
Simpleton possessed the kingdom, and lived long and happily with his
wife.

____________________

Transcriber's Notes:

There are 225 illustrations and illustrated drop-caps in the original
book. In this text version, I have only indicated those illustrations
having captions. The html version contains many beautiful and intricate
drawings and woodcuts.

There are several inconsistencies in hyphenation. The following words
appear in the text both with and without a hyphen: bed-chamber,
bed-time, egg-shell, god-father, house-door, in-doors, mill-stone,
sea-side, step-mother, up-stairs.

I have changed or added wrong or missing punctuation in the following
phrases:

--"Little sister, let me out, I must go[added .]"

--stood a maiden more beautiful than any he had seen before[added .]