It was autumn; the trees dropped their leaves, the earnest and
severe pastor sat at the bedside of a dying person.  A pious,
faithful soul closed her eyes for ever; she was the pastor's wife.

..."If any one shall find rest in the grave and mercy before our
Lord you shall certainly do so," said the pastor.  He folded her
hands and read a psalm over the dead woman.

She was buried; two large tears rolled over the cheeks of the
earnest man, and in the parsonage it was empty and still, for its
sun had set for ever.  She had gone home.

It was night.  A cold wind swept over the pastor's head; he
opened his eyes, and it seemed to him as if the moon was shining
into his room.  It was not so, however; there was a being standing
before his bed, and looking like the ghost of his deceased wife.  She
fixed her eyes upon him with such a kind and sad expression, just as
if she wished to say something to him.  The pastor raised himself in
bed and stretched his arms towards her, saying, "Not even you can find
eternal rest!  You suffer, you best and most pious woman?"

The dead woman nodded her head as if to say "Yes," and put her
hand on her breast.

"And can I not obtain rest in the grave for you?"

"Yes," was the answer.

"And how?"

"Give me one hair--only one single hair--from the head of the
sinner for whom the fire shall never be extinguished, of the sinner
whom God will condemn to eternal punishment in hell."

"Yes, one ought to be able to redeem you so easily, you pure,
pious woman," he said.

"Follow me," said the dead woman.  "It is thus granted to us.  By my
side you will be able to fly wherever your thoughts wish to go.
Invisible to men, we shall penetrate into their most secret
chambers; but with sure hand you must find out him who is destined
to eternal torture, and before the cock crows he must be found!"  As
quickly as if carried by the winged thoughts they were in the great
city, and from the walls the names of the deadly sins shone in flaming
letters: pride, avarice, drunkenness, wantonness--in short, the
whole seven-coloured bow of sin.

"Yes, therein, as I believed, as I knew it," said the pastor, "are
living those who are abandoned to the eternal fire."  And they were
standing before the magnificently illuminated gate; the broad steps
were adorned with carpets and flowers, and dance music was sounding
through the festive halls.  A footman dressed in silk and velvet
stood with a large silver-mounted rod near the entrance.

"Our ball can compare favourably with the king's," he said, and
turned with contempt towards the gazing crowd in the street.  What he
thought was sufficiently expressed in his features and movements:
"Miserable beggars, who are looking in, you are nothing in
comparison to me."

"Pride," said the dead woman; "do you see him?"