"The footman?" asked the pastor.  "He is but a poor fool, and not
doomed to be tortured eternally by fire!"

"Only a fool!"  It sounded through the whole house of pride: they
were all fools there.

Then they flew within the four naked walls of the miser.  Lean as a
skeleton, trembling with cold, and hunger, the old man was clinging
with all his thoughts to his money.  They saw him jump up feverishly
from his miserable couch and take a loose stone out of the wall; there
lay gold coins in an old stocking.  They saw him anxiously feeling over
an old ragged coat in which pieces of gold were sewn, and his clammy
fingers trembled.

"He is ill!  That is madness--a joyless madness--besieged by fear
and dreadful dreams!"

They quickly went away and came before the beds of the
criminals; these unfortunate people slept side by side, in long
rows.  Like a ferocious animal, one of them rose out of his sleep and
uttered a horrible cry, and gave his comrade a violent dig in the ribs
with his pointed elbow, and this one turned round in his sleep:

"Be quiet, monster--sleep!  This happens every night!"

"Every night!" repeated the other.  "Yes, every night he comes
and tortures me!  In my violence I have done this and that.  I was
born with an evil mind, which has brought me hither for the second
time; but if I have done wrong I suffer punishment for it.  One
thing, however, I have not yet confessed.  When I came out a little
while ago, and passed by the yard of my former master, evil thoughts
rose within me when I remembered this and that.  I struck a match a
little bit on the wall; probably it came a little too close to the
thatched roof.  All burnt down--a great heat rose, such as sometimes
overcomes me.  I myself helped to rescue cattle and things, nothing
alive burnt, except a flight of pigeons, which flew into the fire, and
the yard dog, of which I had not thought; one could hear him howl
out of the fire, and this howling I still hear when I wish to sleep;
and when I have fallen asleep, the great rough dog comes and places
himself upon me, and howls, presses, and tortures me.  Now listen to
what I tell you!  You can snore; you are snoring the whole night, and I
hardly a quarter of an hour!"  And the blood rose to the head of the
excited criminal; he threw himself upon his comrade, and beat him with
his clenched fist in the face.

"Wicked Matz has become mad again!" they said amongst
themselves.  The other criminals seized him, wrestled with him, and
bent him double, so that his head rested between his knees, and they
tied him, so that the blood almost came out of his eyes and out of all
his pores.