It was night, and quite still in the great town.  Here they
remained, and the angel hovered over a small, narrow street, in
which lay a large heap of straw, ashes, and sweepings from the
houses of people who had removed.  There lay fragments of plates,
pieces of plaster, rags, old hats, and other rubbish not pleasant to
see.  Amidst all this confusion, the angel pointed to the pieces of a
broken flower-pot, and to a lump of earth which had fallen out of
it.  The earth had been kept from falling to pieces by the roots of a
withered field-flower, which had been thrown amongst the rubbish.

"We will take this with us," said the angel, "I will tell you
why as we fly along."

And as they flew the angel related the history.

"Down in that narrow lane, in a low cellar, lived a poor sick boy;
he had been afflicted from his childhood, and even in his best days he
could just manage to walk up and down the room on crutches once or
twice, but no more.  During some days in summer, the sunbeams would lie
on the floor of the cellar for about half an hour.  In this spot the
poor sick boy would sit warming himself in the sunshine, and
watching the red blood through his delicate fingers as he held them
before his face.  Then he would say he had been out, yet he knew
nothing of the green forest in its spring verdure, till a neighbor's
son brought him a green bough from a beech-tree.  This he would place
over his head, and fancy that he was in the beech-wood while the sun
shone, and the birds carolled gayly.  One spring day the neighbor's boy
brought him some field-flowers, and among them was one to which the
root still adhered.  This he carefully planted in a flower-pot, and
placed in a window-seat near his bed.  And the flower had been
planted by a fortunate hand, for it grew, put forth fresh shoots,
and blossomed every year.  It became a splendid flower-garden to the
sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.  He watered it, and
cherished it, and took care it should have the benefit of every
sunbeam that found its way into the cellar, from the earliest
morning ray to the evening sunset.  The flower entwined itself even
in his dreams--for him it bloomed, for him spread its perfume.  And
it gladdened his eyes, and to the flower he turned, even in death,
when the Lord called him.  He has been one year with God.  During that
time the flower has stood in the window, withered and forgotten,
till at length cast out among the sweepings into the street, on the
day of the lodgers' removal.  And this poor flower, withered and
faded as it is, we have added to our nosegay, because it gave more
real joy than the most beautiful flower in the garden of a queen."