"But how do you know all this?" asked the child whom the angel was
carrying to heaven.

"I know it," said the angel, "because I myself was the poor sick
boy who walked upon crutches, and I know my own flower well."

Then the child opened his eyes and looked into the glorious
happy face of the angel, and at the same moment they found
themselves in that heavenly home where all is happiness and joy.  And
God pressed the dead child to His heart, and wings were given him so
that he could fly with the angel, hand in hand.  Then the Almighty
pressed all the flowers to His heart; but He kissed the withered
field-flower, and it received a voice.  Then it joined in the song of
the angels, who surrounded the throne, some near, and others in a
distant circle, but all equally happy.  They all joined in the chorus
of praise, both great and small,--the good, happy child, and the
poor field-flower, that once lay withered and cast away on a heap of
rubbish in a narrow, dark street.

ANNE LISBETH

Anne Lisbeth was a beautiful young woman, with a red and white
complexion, glittering white teeth, and clear soft eyes; and her
footstep was light in the dance, but her mind was lighter still.  She
had a little child, not at all pretty; so he was put out to be
nursed by a laborer's wife, and his mother went to the count's castle.
She sat in splendid rooms, richly decorated with silk and velvet;
not a breath of air was allowed to blow upon her, and no one was
allowed to speak to her harshly, for she was nurse to the count's
child.  He was fair and delicate as a prince, and beautiful as an
angel; and how she loved this child!  Her own boy was provided for by
being at the laborer's where the mouth watered more frequently than
the pot boiled, and where in general no one was at home to take care
of the child.  Then he would cry, but what nobody knows nobody cares
for; so he would cry till he was tired, and then fall asleep; and
while we are asleep we can feel neither hunger nor thirst.  Ah, yes;
sleep is a capital invention.