Anne Lisbeth had now lived in the town many years; she was
called "Madame," and felt dignified in consequence; she remembered the
old, noble days, in which she had driven in the carriage, and had
associated with countess and baroness.  Her beautiful, noble child
had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved
her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and
loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.  Now
he was fourteen years of age, tall, handsome, and clever.  She had
not seen him since she carried him in her arms; neither had she been
for years to the count's palace; it was quite a journey thither from
the town.

"I must make one effort to go," said Anne Lisbeth, "to see my
darling, the count's sweet child, and press him to my heart.  Certainly
he must long to see me, too, the young count; no doubt he thinks of me
and loves me, as in those days when he would fling his angel-arms
round my neck, and lisp 'Anne Liz.' It was music to my ears.  Yes, I
must make an effort to see him again."  She drove across the country in
a grazier's cart, and then got out, and continued her journey on foot,
and thus reached the count's castle.  It was as great and magnificent
as it had always been, and the garden looked the same as ever; all the
servants were strangers to her, not one of them knew Anne Lisbeth, nor
of what consequence she had once been there; but she felt sure the
countess would soon let them know it, and her darling boy, too: how
she longed to see him!

Now that Anne Lisbeth was at her journey's end, she was kept
waiting a long time; and for those who wait, time passes slowly.  But
before the great people went in to dinner, she was called in and
spoken to very graciously.  She was to go in again after dinner, and
then she would see her sweet boy once more.  How tall, and slender, and
thin he had grown; but the eyes and the sweet angel mouth were still
beautiful.  He looked at her, but he did not speak, he certainly did
not know who she was.  He turned round and was going away, but she
seized his hand and pressed it to her lips.

"Well, well," he said; and with that he walked out of the room.  He
who filled her every thought!  he whom she loved best, and who was
her whole earthly pride!

Anne Lisbeth went forth from the castle into the public road,
feeling mournful and sad; he whom she had nursed day and night, and
even now carried about in her dreams, had been cold and strange, and
had not a word or thought respecting her.  A great black raven darted
down in front of her on the high road, and croaked dismally.