The sun had set, and the evening bells sounded through the air
from the tower of the village church, but to her it was not the bells,
but the cry of the frogs in the marshes.  Then they ceased, and all
around became still; not a bird could be heard, they were all at rest,
even the owl had not left her hiding place; deep silence reigned on
the margin of the wood by the sea-shore.  As Anne Lisbeth walked on she
could hear her own footsteps in the sands; even the waves of the sea
were at rest, and all in the deep waters had sunk into silence.
There was quiet among the dead and the living in the deep sea.  Anne
Lisbeth walked on, thinking of nothing at all, as people say, or
rather her thoughts wandered, but not away from her, for thought is
never absent from us, it only slumbers.  Many thoughts that have lain
dormant are roused at the proper time, and begin to stir in the mind
and the heart, and seem even to come upon us from above.  It is
written, that a good deed bears a blessing for its fruit; and it is
also written, that the wages of sin is death.  Much has been said and
much written which we pass over or know nothing of.  A light arises
within us, and then forgotten things make themselves remembered; and
thus it was with Anne Lisbeth.  The germ of every vice and every virtue
lies in our heart, in yours and in mine; they lie like little grains
of seed, till a ray of sunshine, or the touch of an evil hand, or
you turn the corner to the right or to the left, and the decision is
made.  The little seed is stirred, it swells and shoots up, and pours
its sap into your blood, directing your course either for good or
evil.  Troublesome thoughts often exist in the mind, fermenting
there, which are not realized by us while the senses are as it were
slumbering; but still they are there.  Anne Lisbeth walked on thus with
her senses half asleep, but the thoughts were fermenting within her.

From one Shrove Tuesday to another, much may occur to weigh down
the heart; it is the reckoning of a whole year; much may be forgotten,
sins against heaven in word and thought, sins against our neighbor,
and against our own conscience.  We are scarcely aware of their
existence; and Anne Lisbeth did not think of any of her errors.  She
had committed no crime against the law of the land; she was an
honorable person, in a good position--that she knew.