She gathered herself up, and hastened to the churchyard; but black
crosses and black ravens danced before her eyes, and she could not
distinguish one from the other.  The ravens croaked as the raven had
done which she saw in the daytime, but now she understood what they
said.  "I am the raven-mother; I am the raven-mother," each raven
croaked, and Anne Lisbeth felt that the name also applied to her;
and she fancied she should be transformed into a black bird, and
have to cry as they cried, if she did not dig the grave.  And she threw
herself upon the earth, and with her hands dug a grave in the hard
ground, so that the blood ran from her fingers.  "A grave!  dig me a
grave!" still sounded in her ears; she was fearful that the cock might
crow, and the first red streak appear in the east, before she had
finished her work; and then she would be lost.  And the cock crowed,
and the day dawned in the east, and the grave was only half dug.  An
icy hand passed over her head and face, and down towards her heart.
"Only half a grave," a voice wailed, and fled away.  Yes, it fled
away over the sea; it was the ocean spectre; and, exhausted and
overpowered, Anne Lisbeth sunk to the ground, and her senses left her.

It was a bright day when she came to herself, and two men were
raising her up; but she was not lying in the churchyard, but on the
sea-shore, where she had dug a deep hole in the sand, and cut her hand
with a piece of broken glass, whose sharp stern was stuck in a
little block of painted wood.  Anne Lisbeth was in a fever.
Conscience had roused the memories of superstitions, and had so
acted upon her mind, that she fancied she had only half a soul, and
that her child had taken the other half down into the sea.  Never would
she be able to cling to the mercy of Heaven till she had recovered
this other half which was now held fast in the deep water.

Anne Lisbeth returned to her home, but she was no longer the woman
she had been.  Her thoughts were like a confused, tangled skein; only
one thread, only one thought was clear to her, namely that she must
carry the spectre of the sea-shore to the churchyard, and dig a
grave for him there; that by so doing she might win back her soul.
Many a night she was missed from her home, and was always found on the
sea-shore waiting for the spectre.

In this way a whole year passed; and then one night she vanished
again, and was not to be found.  The whole of the next day was spent in
a useless search after her.