Towards evening, when the clerk entered the church to toll the
vesper bell, he saw by the altar Anne Lisbeth, who had spent the whole
day there.  Her powers of body were almost exhausted, but her eyes
flashed brightly, and on her cheeks was a rosy flush.  The last rays of
the setting sun shone upon her, and gleamed over the altar upon the
shining clasps of the Bible, which lay open at the words of the
prophet Joel, "Rend your hearts and not your garments, and turn unto
the Lord."

"That was just a chance," people said; but do things happen by
chance?  In the face of Anne Lisbeth, lighted up by the evening sun,
could be seen peace and rest.  She said she was happy now, for she
had conquered.  The spectre of the shore, her own child, had come to
her the night before, and had said to her, "Thou hast dug me only half
a grave: but thou hast now, for a year and a day, buried me altogether
in thy heart, and it is there a mother can best hide her child!" And
then he gave her back her lost soul, and brought her into the
church.  "Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house
we are happy."

When the sun set, Anne Lisbeth's soul had risen to that region
where there is no more pain; and Anne Lisbeth's troubles were at an
end.

THE CONCEITED APPLE-BRANCH

It was the month of May.  The wind still blew cold; but from bush
and tree, field and flower, came the welcome sound, "Spring is
come."  Wild-flowers in profusion covered the hedges.  Under the
little apple-tree, Spring seemed busy, and told his tale from one of
the branches which hung fresh and blooming, and covered with
delicate pink blossoms that were just ready to open.  The branch well
knew how beautiful it was; this knowledge exists as much in the leaf
as in the blood; I was therefore not surprised when a nobleman's
carriage, in which sat the young countess, stopped in the road just
by.  She said that an apple-branch was a most lovely object, and an
emblem of spring in its most charming aspect.  Then the branch was
broken off for her, and she held it in her delicate hand, and
sheltered it with her silk parasol.  Then they drove to the castle,
in which were lofty halls and splendid drawing-rooms.  Pure white
curtains fluttered before the open windows, and beautiful flowers
stood in shining, transparent vases; and in one of them, which
looked as if it had been cut out of newly fallen snow, the
apple-branch was placed, among some fresh, light twigs of beech.  It
was a charming sight.  Then the branch became proud, which was very
much like human nature.