Kaela's beauty had a firm hold on Alfred; it filled his soul,
and held a mastery over him.  Beauty beamed from Kaela's every feature,
glittered in her eyes, lurked in the corners of her mouth, and
pervaded every movement of her agile fingers.  Alfred, the sculptor,
saw this.  He spoke only to her, thought only of her, and the two
became one; and so it may be said she spoke much, for he was always
talking to her; and he and she were one.  Such was the betrothal, and
then came the wedding, with bride's-maids and wedding presents, all
duly mentioned in the wedding speech.  Mamma-in-law had set up
Thorwalsden's bust at the end of the table, attired in a
dressing-gown; it was her fancy that he should be a guest.  Songs
were sung, and cheers given; for it was a gay wedding, and they were a
handsome pair.  "Pygmalion loved his Galatea," said one of the songs.

"Ah, that is some of your mythologies," said mamma-in-law.

Next day the youthful pair started for Copenhagen, where they were
to live; mamma-in-law accompanied them, to attend to the "coarse
work," as she always called the domestic arrangements.  Kaela looked
like a doll in a doll's house, for everything was bright and new,
and so fine.  There they sat, all three; and as for Alfred, a proverb
may describe his position--he looked like a swan amongst the geese.
The magic of form had enchanted him; he had looked at the casket
without caring to inquire what it contained, and that omission often
brings the greatest unhappiness into married life.  The casket may be
injured, the gilding may fall off, and then the purchaser regrets
his bargain.

In a large party it is very disagreeable to find a button giving
way, with no studs at hand to fall back upon; but it is worse still in
a large company to be conscious that your wife and mother-in-law are
talking nonsense, and that you cannot depend upon yourself to
produce a little ready wit to carry off the stupidity of the whole
affair.

The young married pair often sat together hand in hand; he would
talk, but she could only now and then let fall a word in the same
melodious voice, the same bell-like tones.  It was a mental relief when
Sophy, one of her friends, came to pay them a visit.  Sophy was not,
pretty.  She was, however, quite free from any physical deformity,
although Kaela used to say she was a little crooked; but no eye,
save an intimate acquaintance, would have noticed it.  She was a very
sensible girl, yet it never occurred to her that she might be a
dangerous person in such a house.  Her appearance created a new
atmosphere in the doll's house, and air was really required, they
all owned that.  They felt the want of a change of air, and
consequently the young couple and their mother travelled to Italy.