"'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my
first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful
statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is
a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and
elevate us, I have not found and won till now.  You came, Sophy, not in
the glory of outward beauty, though you are even fairer than is
necessary.  The chief thing still remains.  You came to teach the
sculptor that his work is but dust and clay only, an outward form made
of a material that decays, and that what we should seek to obtain is
the ethereal essence of mind and spirit.  Poor Kaela!  our life was
but as a meeting by the way-side; in yonder world, where we shall know
each other from a union of mind, we shall be but mere acquaintances."

"That was not a loving speech," said Sophy, "nor spoken like a
Christian.  In a future state, where there is neither marrying nor
giving in marriage, but where, as you say, souls are attracted to each
other by sympathy; there everything beautiful develops itself, and
is raised to a higher state of existence: her soul will acquire such
completeness that it may harmonize with yours, even more than mine,
and you will then once more utter your first rapturous exclamation
of your love, 'Beautiful, most beautiful!'"

THE BEETLE WHO WENT ON HIS TRAVELS

There was once an Emperor who had a horse shod with gold.  He had a
golden shoe on each foot, and why was this?  He was a beautiful
creature, with slender legs, bright, intelligent eyes, and a mane that
hung down over his neck like a veil.  He had carried his master through
fire and smoke in the battle-field, with the bullets whistling round
him; he had kicked and bitten, and taken part in the fight, when the
enemy advanced; and, with his master on his back, he had dashed over
the fallen foe, and saved the golden crown and the Emperor's life,
which was of more value than the brightest gold.  This is the reason of
the Emperor's horse wearing golden shoes.

A beetle came creeping forth from the stable, where the farrier
had been shoeing the horse.  "Great ones, first, of course," said he,
"and then the little ones; but size is not always a proof of
greatness."  He stretched out his thin leg as he spoke.

"And pray what do you want?" asked the farrier.

"Golden shoes," replied the beetle.

"Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the farrier.
"Golden shoes for you, indeed!"

"Yes, certainly; golden shoes," replied the beetle.  "Am I not just
as good as that great creature yonder, who is waited upon and brushed,
and has food and drink placed before him?  And don't I belong to the
royal stables?"

"But why does the horse have golden shoes?" asked the farrier; "of
course you understand the reason?"