The boat now came close to our beetle's ship, and the young
girls fished it out of the water.  One of them drew a small pair of
scissors from her pocket, and cut the worsted without hurting the
beetle, and when she stepped on shore she placed him on the grass.
"There," she said, "creep away, or fly, if thou canst.  It is a
splendid thing to have thy liberty."  Away flew the beetle, straight
through the open window of a large building; there he sank down, tired
and exhausted, exactly on the mane of the emperor's favorite horse,
who was standing in his stable; and the beetle found himself at home
again.  For some time he clung to the mane, that he might recover
himself.  "Well," he said, "here I am, seated on the emperor's favorite
horse,--sitting upon him as if I were the emperor himself.  But what
was it the farrier asked me?  Ah, I remember now,--that's a good
thought,--he asked me why the golden shoes were given to the horse.
The answer is quite clear to me, now.  They were given to the horse
on my account."  And this reflection put the beetle into a good temper.
The sun's rays also came streaming into the stable, and shone upon
him, and made the place lively and bright.  "Travelling expands the
mind very much," said the beetle.  "The world is not so bad after
all, if you know how to take things as they come."

THE BELL

In the narrow streets of a large town people often heard in the
evening, when the sun was setting, and his last rays gave a golden
tint to the chimney-pots, a strange noise which resembled the sound of
a church bell; it only lasted an instant, for it was lost in the
continual roar of traffic and hum of voices which rose from the
town.  "The evening bell is ringing," people used to say; "the sun is
setting!"  Those who walked outside the town, where the houses were
less crowded and interspersed by gardens and little fields, saw the
evening sky much better, and heard the sound of the bell much more
clearly.  It seemed as though the sound came from a church, deep in the
calm, fragrant wood, and thither people looked with devout feelings.