What the Bell tells?  To repeat it all would require years and
days; for year by year it is telling the old stories, sometimes
short ones, sometimes long ones, according to its whim; it tells of
old times, of the dark hard times, thus:

"In the church of St.  Alban, the monk had mounted up into the
tower.  He was young and handsome, but thoughtful exceedingly.  He
looked through the loophole out upon the Odense-Au, when the bed of
the water was yet broad, and the monks' meadow was still a lake.  He
looked out over it, and over the rampart, and over the nuns' hill
opposite, where the convent lay, and the light gleamed forth from
the nun's cell.  He had known the nun right well, and he thought of
her, and his heart beat quicker as he thought.  Ding-dong! ding-dong!"

Yes, this was the story the Bell told.

"Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop;
and when I, the Bell, who am made of metal, rang hard and loud, and
swung to and fro, I might have beaten out his brains.  He sat down
close under me, and played with two little sticks as if they had
been a stringed instrument; and he sang to it.  'Now I may sing it
out aloud, though at other times I may not whisper it.  I may sing of
everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars.  Yonder it is
cold and wet.  The rats are eating her up alive!  Nobody knows of it!
Nobody hears of it!  Not even now, for the bell is ringing and
singing its loud Ding-dong, ding-dong!'

"There was a King in those days.  They called him Canute.  He
bowed himself before bishop and monk; but when he offended the free
peasants with heavy taxes and hard words, they seized their weapons
and put him to flight like a wild beast.  He sought shelter in the
church, and shut gate and door behind him.  The violent band surrounded
the church; I heard tell of it.  The crows, ravens and magpies
started up in terror at the yelling and shouting that sounded
around.  They flew into the tower and out again, they looked down
upon the throng below, and they also looked into the windows of the
church, and screamed out aloud what they saw there.  King Canute
treacherous Blake, betrayed his master.  The throng in front of the
church knew where they could hit the King, and one of them flung a
stone through a pane of glass, and the King lay there dead!  The
cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through
the air, and I joined in it also; for I sang 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'