The Bishop of Borglum is a mighty lord.  He has great
possessions, but still he longs for more--everything must bow before
the mighty Olaf Glob.  His rich cousin at Thyland is dead, and his
widow is to have the rich inheritance.  But how comes it that one
relation is always harder towards another than even strangers would
be?  The widow's husband had possessed all Thyland, with the
exception of the church property.  Her son was not at home.  In his
boyhood he had already started on a journey, for his desire was to see
foreign lands and strange people.  For years there had been no news
of him.  Perhaps he had been long laid in the grave, and would never
come back to his home, to rule where his mother then ruled.

"What has a woman to do with rule?" said the bishop.

He summoned the widow before a law court; but what did he gain
thereby?  The widow had never been disobedient to the law, and was
strong in her just rights.

Bishop Olaf of Borglum, what dost thou purpose?  What writest
thou on yonder smooth parchment, sealing it with thy seal, and
intrusting it to the horsemen and servants, who ride away, far away,
to the city of the Pope?

It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships, and soon
icy winter will come.

Twice had icy winter returned before the bishop welcomed the
horsemen and servants back to their home.  They came from Rome with a
papal decree--a ban, or bull, against the widow who had dared to
offend the pious bishop.  "Cursed be she and all that belongs to her.
Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.  Let no man
stretch forth a helping hand to her, and let friends and relations
avoid her as a plague and a pestilence!"

"What will not bend must break," said the Bishop of Borglum

And all forsake the widow; but she holds fast to her God.  He is
her helper and defender.

One servant only--an old maid--remained faithful to her; and
with the old servant, the widow herself followed the plough; and the
crop grew, although the land had been cursed by the Pope and by the
bishop.

"Thou child of perdition, I will yet carry out my purpose!"
cried the Bishop of Borglum.  "Now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon
thee, to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee!"