Moorland and meadow are covered with ice and snow.  The marsh
will bear horse and rider, the bishop with his priests and armed
men.  They ride the shortest way, through the waving reeds, where the
wind moans sadly.

Blow thy brazen trumpet, thou trumpeter clad in fox-skin!  it
sounds merrily in the clear air.  So they ride on over heath and
moorland--over what is the garden of Fata Morgana in the hot summer,
though now icy, like all the country--towards the church of Widberg.

The wind is blowing his trumpet too--blowing it harder and harder.
He blows up a storm--a terrible storm--that increases more and more.
Towards the church they ride, as fast as they may through the storm.
The church stands firm, but the storm careers on over field and
moorland, over land and sea.

Borglum's bishop reaches the church; but Olaf Hase will scarce
do so, however hard he may ride.  He journeys with his warriors on
the farther side of the bay, in order that he may help Jens Glob,
now that the bishop is to be summoned before the judgment seat of
the Highest.

The church is the judgment hall; the altar is the council table.
The lights burn clear in the heavy brass candelabra.  The storm reads
out the accusation and the sentence, roaming in the air over moor
and heath, and over the rolling waters.  No ferry-boat can sail over
the bay in such weather as this.

Olaf Hase makes halt at Ottesworde.  There he dismisses his
warriors, presents them with their horses and harness, and gives
them leave to ride home and greet his wife.  He intends to risk his
life alone in the roaring waters; but they are to bear witness for him
that it is not his fault if Jens Glob stands without reinforcement
in the church at Widberg.  The faithful warriors will not leave him,
but follow him out into the deep waters.  Ten of them are carried away;
but Olaf Hase and two of the youngest men reach the farther side.  They
have still four miles to ride.

It is past midnight.  It is Christmas.  The wind has abated.  The
church is lighted up; the gleaming radiance shines through the
window-frames, and pours out over meadow and heath.  The mass has
long been finished, silence reigns in the church, and the wax is heard
dropping from the candles to the stone pavement.  And now Olaf Hase
arrives.

In the forecourt Jens Glob greets him kindly, and says,

"I have just made an agreement with the bishop."

"Sayest thou so?" replied Olaf Hase.  "Then neither thou nor the
bishop shall quit this church alive."

And the sword leaps from the scabbard, and Olaf Hase deals a
blow that makes the panel of the church door, which Jens Glob
hastily closes between them, fly in fragments.