Now we are in the churchyard.  Here, behind the white iron
railings, once a rose-tree grew; it is gone now, but a little bit of
evergreen, from a neighboring grave, stretches out its green tendrils,
and makes some appearance; there rests a very unhappy man, and yet
while he lived he might be said to occupy a very good position.  He had
enough to live upon, and something to spare; but owing to his
refined tastes the least thing in the world annoyed him.  If he went to
a theatre of an evening, instead of enjoying himself he would be quite
annoyed if the machinist had put too strong a light into one side of
the moon, or if the representations of the sky hung over the scenes
when they ought to have hung behind them; or if a palm-tree was
introduced into a scene representing the Zoological Gardens of Berlin,
or a cactus in a view of Tyrol, or a beech-tree in the north of
Norway.  As if these things were of any consequence!  Why did he not
leave them alone?  Who would trouble themselves about such trifles?
especially at a comedy, where every one is expected to be amused.  Then
sometimes the public applauded too much, or too little, to please him.
"They are like wet wood," he would say, looking round to see what sort
of people were present, "this evening; nothing fires them."  Then he
would vex and fret himself because they did not laugh at the right
time, or because they laughed in the wrong places; and so he fretted
and worried himself till at last the unhappy man fretted himself
into the grave.

Here rests a happy man, that is to say, a man of high birth and
position, which was very lucky for him, otherwise he would have been
scarcely worth notice.  It is beautiful to observe how wisely nature
orders these things.  He walked about in a coat embroidered all over,
and in the drawing-rooms of society looked just like one of those rich
pearl-embroidered bell-pulls, which are only made for show; and behind
them always hangs a good thick cord for use.  This man also had a
stout, useful substitute behind him, who did duty for him, and
performed all his dirty work.  And there are still, even now, these
serviceable cords behind other embroidered bell-ropes.  It is all so
wisely arranged, that a man may well be in a good humor.