Here rests,--ah, it makes one feel mournful to think of him!--but
here rests a man who, during sixty-seven years, was never
remembered to have said a good thing; he lived only in the hope of
having a good idea.  At last he felt convinced, in his own mind, that
he really had one, and was so delighted that he positively died of joy
imagine that this same idea may prevent him from resting quietly in
his grave; for suppose that to produce a good effect, it is
necessary to bring out his new idea at breakfast, and that he can only
make his appearance on earth at midnight, as ghosts are believed
generally to do; why then this good idea would not suit the hour,
and the man would have to carry it down again with him into the
grave--that must be a troubled grave.

The woman who lies here was so remarkably stingy, that during
her life she would get up in the night and mew, that her neighbors
might think she kept a cat.  What a miser she was!

Here rests a young lady, of a good family, who would always make
her voice heard in society, and when she sang "Mi manca la voce,"[1]
it was the only true thing she ever said in her life.

Here lies a maiden of another description.  She was engaged to be
married,--but, her story is one of every-day life; we will leave her
to rest in the grave.

Here rests a widow, who, with music in her tongue, carried gall in
her heart.  She used to go round among the families near, and search
out their faults, upon which she preyed with all the envy and malice
of her nature.  This is a family grave.  The members of this family held
so firmly together in their opinions, that they would believe in no
other.  If the newspapers, or even the whole world, said of a certain
subject, "It is so-and-so;" and a little schoolboy declared he had
learned quite differently, they would take his assertion as the only
true one, because he belonged to the family.  And it is well known that
if the yard-cock belonging to this family happened to crow at
midnight, they would declare it was morning, although the watchman and
all the clocks in the town were proclaiming the hour of twelve at
night.