"What a capital story," said the queen, "I feel as if I were
really in the kitchen, and could see the matches; yes, you shall marry
our daughter."

"Certainly," said the king, "thou shalt have our daughter." The
king said thou to him because he was going to be one of the family.
The wedding-day was fixed, and, on the evening before, the whole
city was illuminated. Cakes and sweetmeats were thrown among the
people. The street boys stood on tiptoe and shouted "hurrah," and
whistled between their fingers; altogether it was a very splendid
affair.

"I will give them another treat," said the merchant's son. So he
went and bought rockets and crackers, and all sorts of fire-works that
could be thought of, packed them in his trunk, and flew up with it
into the air. What a whizzing and popping they made as they went
off! The Turks, when they saw such a sight in the air, jumped so
high that their slippers flew about their ears. It was easy to believe
after this that the princess was really going to marry a Turkish
angel.

As soon as the merchant's son had come down in his flying trunk to
the wood after the fireworks, he thought, "I will go back into the
town now, and hear what they think of the entertainment." It was
very natural that he should wish to know. And what strange things
people did say, to be sure! every one whom he questioned had a
different tale to tell, though they all thought it very beautiful.

"'I saw the Turkish angel myself," said one; "he had eyes like
glittering stars, and a head like foaming water."

"He flew in a mantle of fire," cried another, "and lovely little
cherubs peeped out from the folds."

He heard many more fine things about himself, and that the next
day he was to be married. After this he went back to the forest to
rest himself in his trunk. It had disappeared! A spark from the
fireworks which remained had set it on fire; it was burnt to ashes! So
the merchant's son could not fly any more, nor go to meet his bride.
She stood all day on the roof waiting for him, and most likely she
is waiting there still; while he wanders through the world telling
fairy tales, but none of them so amusing as the one he related about
the matches.

THE SHEPHERD'S STORY OF THE BOND OF FRIENDSHIP