Christmas-time drew near, and a peasant who dwelt close by the old
wall stuck up a pole with some ears of corn fastened to the top,
that the birds of heaven might have feast, and rejoice in the happy,
blessed time. And on Christmas morning the sun arose and shone upon
the ears of corn, which were quickly surrounded by a number of
twittering birds. Then, from a hole in the wall, gushed forth in
song the swelling thoughts of the bird as he issued from his hiding
place to perform his first good deed on earth,--and in heaven it was
well known who that bird was.

The winter was very hard; the ponds were covered with ice, and
there was very little food for either the beasts of the field or the
birds of the air. Our little bird flew away into the public roads, and
found here and there, in the ruts of the sledges, a grain of corn, and
at the halting places some crumbs. Of these he ate only a few, but
he called around him the other birds and the hungry sparrows, that
they too might have food. He flew into the towns, and looked about,
and wherever a kind hand had strewed bread on the window-sill for
the birds, he only ate a single crumb himself, and gave all the rest
to the rest of the other birds. In the course of the winter the bird
had in this way collected many crumbs and given them to other birds,
till they equalled the weight of the loaf on which Inge had trod to
keep her shoes clean; and when the last bread-crumb had been found and
given, the gray wings of the bird became white, and spread
themselves out for flight.

"See, yonder is a sea-gull!" cried the children, when they saw the
white bird, as it dived into the sea, and rose again into the clear
sunlight, white and glittering. But no one could tell whither it
went then although some declared it flew straight to the sun.

THE GOBLIN AND THE HUCKSTER

There was once a regular student, who lived in a garret, and had
no possessions. And there was also a regular huckster, to whom the
house belonged, and who occupied the ground floor. A goblin lived with
the huckster, because at Christmas he always had a large dish full
of jam, with a great piece of butter in the middle. The huckster could
afford this; and therefore the goblin remained with the huckster,
which was very cunning of him.