As he uttered this wish, the goloshes which he had put on took
effect, and the watchman at once became the lieutenant. There he stood
in his room, holding a little piece of pink paper between his fingers,
on which was a poem,--a poem written by the lieutenant himself. Who
has not had, for once in his life, a moment of poetic inspiration? and
at such a moment, if the thoughts are written down, they flow in
poetry. The following verses were written on the pink paper:--

"OH WERE I RICH!

"Oh were I rich! How oft, in youth's bright hour,
    When youthful pleasures banish every care,
  I longed for riches but to gain a power,
    The sword and plume and uniform to wear!
  The riches and the honor came for me;
    Yet still my greatest wealth was poverty:
        Ah, help and pity me!

"Once in my youthful hours, when gay and free,
    A maiden loved me; and her gentle kiss,
  Rich in its tender love and purity,
    Taught me, alas! too much of earthly bliss.
  Dear child! She only thought of youthful glee;
    She loved no wealth, but fairy tales and me.
        Thou knowest: ah, pity me!

"Oh were I rich! again is all my prayer:
    That child is now a woman, fair and free,
  As good and beautiful as angels are.
    Oh, were I rich in lovers' poetry,
  To tell my fairy tale, love's richest lore!
    But no; I must be silent--I am poor.
        Ah, wilt thou pity me?

"Oh were I rich in truth and peace below,
    I need not then my poverty bewail.
  To thee I dedicate these lines of woe;
    Wilt thou not understand the mournful tale?
  A leaf on which my sorrows I relate--
    Dark story of a darker night of fate.
        Ah, bless and pity me!"

"Well, yes; people write poems when they are in love, but a wise
man will not print them. A lieutenant in love, and poor. This is a
triangle, or more properly speaking, the half of the broken die of
fortune." The lieutenant felt this very keenly, and therefore leaned
his head against the window-frame, and sighed deeply. "The poor
watchman in the street," said he, "is far happier than I am. He
knows not what I call poverty. He has a home, a wife and children, who
weep at his sorrow and rejoice at his joy. Oh, how much happier I
should be could I change my being and position with him, and pass
through life with his humble expectations and hopes! Yes, he is indeed
happier than I am."