Travellers from every country in the world came to the city of the
emperor, which they admired very much, as well as the palace and
gardens; but when they heard the nightingale, they all declared it
to be the best of all. And the travellers, on their return home,
related what they had seen; and learned men wrote books, containing
descriptions of the town, the palace, and the gardens; but they did
not forget the nightingale, which was really the greatest wonder.
And those who could write poetry composed beautiful verses about the
nightingale, who lived in a forest near the deep sea. The books
travelled all over the world, and some of them came into the hands
of the emperor; and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, he
nodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such a
beautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens. But
when he came to the words, "the nightingale is the most beautiful of
all," he exclaimed, "What is this? I know nothing of any
nightingale. Is there such a bird in my empire? and even in my garden?
I have never heard of it. Something, it appears, may be learnt from
books."

Then he called one of his lords-in-waiting, who was so
high-bred, that when any in an inferior rank to himself spoke to
him, or asked him a question, he would answer, "Pooh," which means
nothing.

"There is a very wonderful bird mentioned here, called a
nightingale," said the emperor; "they say it is the best thing in my
large kingdom. Why have I not been told of it?"

"I have never heard the name," replied the cavalier; "she has
not been presented at court."

"It is my pleasure that she shall appear this evening." said the
emperor; "the whole world knows what I possess better than I do
myself."

"I have never heard of her," said the cavalier; "yet I will
endeavor to find her."

But where was the nightingale to be found? The nobleman went up
stairs and down, through halls and passages; yet none of those whom he
met had heard of the bird. So he returned to the emperor, and said
that it must be a fable, invented by those who had written the book.
"Your imperial majesty," said he, "cannot believe everything contained
in books; sometimes they are only fiction, or what is called the black
art."

"But the book in which I have read this account," said the
emperor, "was sent to me by the great and mighty emperor of Japan, and
therefore it cannot contain a falsehood. I will hear the
nightingale, she must be here this evening; she has my highest
favor; and if she does not come, the whole court shall be trampled
upon after supper is ended."