When the prince awoke in the early morning, he was not a little
surprised at finding himself high up above the clouds. He was seated
on the back of the East Wind, who held him faithfully; and they were
so high in the air that woods and fields, rivers and lakes, as they
lay beneath them, looked like a painted map.

"Good morning," said the East Wind. "You might have slept on a
while; for there is very little to see in the flat country over
which we are passing unless you like to count the churches; they
look like spots of chalk on a green board." The green board was the
name he gave to the green fields and meadows.

"It was very rude of me not to say good-bye to your mother and
your brothers," said the prince.

"They will excuse you, as you were asleep," said the East Wind;
and then they flew on faster than ever.

The leaves and branches of the trees rustled as they passed.
When they flew over seas and lakes, the waves rose higher, and the
large ships dipped into the water like diving swans. As darkness
came on, towards evening, the great towns looked charming; lights were
sparkling, now seen now hidden, just as the sparks go out one after
another on a piece of burnt paper. The prince clapped his hands with
pleasure; but the East Wind advised him not to express his
admiration in that manner, or he might fall down, and find himself
hanging on a church steeple. The eagle in the dark forests flies
swiftly; but faster than he flew the East Wind. The Cossack, on his
small horse, rides lightly o'er the plains; but lighter still passed
the prince on the winds of the wind.

"There are the Himalayas, the highest mountains in Asia," said the
East Wind. "We shall soon reach the garden of paradise now."

Then, they turned southward, and the air became fragrant with
the perfume of spices and flowers. Here figs and pomegranates grew
wild, and the vines were covered with clusters of blue and purple
grapes. Here they both descended to the earth, and stretched
themselves on the soft grass, while the flowers bowed to the breath of
the wind as if to welcome it. "Are we now in the garden of
paradise?" asked the prince.

"No, indeed," replied the East Wind; "but we shall be there very
soon. Do you see that wall of rocks, and the cavern beneath it, over
which the grape vines hang like a green curtain? Through that cavern
we must pass. Wrap your cloak round you; for while the sun scorches
you here, a few steps farther it will be icy cold. The bird flying
past the entrance to the cavern feels as if one wing were in the
region of summer, and the other in the depths of winter."