But the East Wind answered not a word, only pointed forwards to
a lovely blue light which gleamed in the distance. The blocks of stone
assumed a misty appearance, till at last they looked like white clouds
in moonlight. The air was fresh and balmy, like a breeze from the
mountains perfumed with flowers from a valley of roses. A river, clear
as the air itself, sparkled at their feet, while in its clear depths
could be seen gold and silver fish sporting in the bright water, and
purple eels emitting sparks of fire at every moment, while the broad
leaves of the water-lilies, that floated on its surface, flickered
with all the colors of the rainbow. The flower in its color of flame
seemed to receive its nourishment from the water, as a lamp is
sustained by oil. A marble bridge, of such exquisite workmanship
that it appeared as if formed of lace and pearls, led to the island of
happiness, in which bloomed the garden of paradise. The East Wind took
the prince in his arms, and carried him over, while the flowers and
the leaves sang the sweet songs of his childhood in tones so full
and soft that no human voice could venture to imitate. Within the
garden grew large trees, full of sap; but whether they were palm-trees
or gigantic water-plants, the prince knew not. The climbing plants
hung in garlands of green and gold, like the illuminations on the
margins of old missals or twined among the initial letters. Birds,
flowers, and festoons appeared intermingled in seeming confusion. Close by, on the grass, stood a group of peacocks, with radiant
tails outspread to the sun. The prince touched them, and found, to his
surprise, that they were not really birds, but the leaves of the
burdock tree, which shone with the colors of a peacock's tail. The
lion and the tiger, gentle and tame, were springing about like playful
cats among the green bushes, whose perfume was like the fragrant
blossom of the olive. The plumage of the wood-pigeon glistened like
pearls as it struck the lion's mane with its wings; while the
antelope, usually so shy, stood near, nodding its head as if it wished
to join in the frolic. The fairy of paradise next made her appearance. Her raiment shone like the sun, and her serene countenance beamed with
happiness like that of a mother rejoicing over her child. She was
young and beautiful, and a train of lovely maidens followed her,
each wearing a bright star in her hair. The East Wind gave her the
palm-leaf, on which was written the history of the phoenix; and her
eyes sparkled with joy. She then took the prince by the hand, and
led him into her palace, the walls of which were richly colored,
like a tulip-leaf when it is turned to the sun. The roof had the
appearance of an inverted flower, and the colors grew deeper and
brighter to the gazer.