The princess smiled, and told him that time had engraved each
event on a window-pane in the form of a picture; but, unlike other
pictures, all that it represented lived and moved,--the leaves
rustled, and the persons went and came, as in a looking-glass. He
looked through another pane, and saw the ladder in Jacob's dream, on
which the angels were ascending and descending with outspread wings.
All that had ever happened in the world here lived and moved on the
panes of glass, in pictures such as time alone could produce. The
fairy now led the prince into a large, lofty room with transparent
walls, through which the light shone. Here were portraits, each one
appearing more beautiful than the other--millions of happy beings,
whose laughter and song mingled in one sweet melody: some of these
were in such an elevated position that they appeared smaller than
the smallest rosebud, or like pencil dots on paper. In the centre of
the hall stood a tree, with drooping branches, from which hung
golden apples, both great and small, looking like oranges amid the
green leaves. It was the tree of knowledge of good and evil, from
which Adam and Eve had plucked and eaten the forbidden fruit, and from
each leaf trickled a bright red dewdrop, as if the tree were weeping
tears of blood for their sin. "Let us now take the boat," said the
fairy: "a sail on the cool waters will refresh us. But we shall not
move from the spot, although the boat may rock on the swelling
water; the countries of the world will glide before us, but we shall
remain still."

It was indeed wonderful to behold. First came the lofty Alps,
snow-clad, and covered with clouds and dark pines. The horn resounded,
and the shepherds sang merrily in the valleys. The banana-trees bent
their drooping branches over the boat, black swans floated on the
water, and singular animals and flowers appeared on the distant shore.
New Holland, the fifth division of the world, now glided by, with
mountains in the background, looking blue in the distance. They
heard the song of the priests, and saw the wild dance of the savage to
the sound of the drums and trumpets of bone; the pyramids of Egypt
rising to the clouds; columns and sphinxes, overthrown and buried in
the sand, followed in their turn; while the northern lights flashed
out over the extinguished volcanoes of the north, in fireworks none
could imitate.

The prince was delighted, and yet he saw hundreds of other
wonderful things more than can be described. "Can I stay here
forever?" asked he.

"That depends upon yourself," replied the fairy. "If you do not,
like Adam, long for what is forbidden, you can remain here always."

"I should not touch the fruit on the tree of knowledge," said
the prince; "there is abundance of fruit equally beautiful."