After this the fairy led him into a large hall, filled with
transparent lilies. The yellow stamina of each flower formed a tiny
golden harp, from which came forth strains of music like the mingled
tones of flute and lyre. Beautiful maidens, slender and graceful in
form, and robed in transparent gauze, floated through the dance, and
sang of the happy life in the garden of paradise, where death never
entered, and where all would bloom forever in immortal youth. As the
sun went down, the whole heavens became crimson and gold, and tinted
the lilies with the hue of roses. Then the beautiful maidens offered
to the prince sparkling wine; and when he had drank, he felt happiness
greater than he had ever known before. Presently the background of the
hall opened and the tree of knowledge appeared, surrounded by a halo
of glory that almost blinded him. Voices, soft and lovely as his
mother's sounded in his ears, as if she were singing to him, "My
child, my beloved child." Then the fairy beckoned to him, and said
in sweet accents, "Come with me, come with me." Forgetting his
promise, forgetting it even on the very first evening, he rushed
towards her, while she continued to beckon to him and to smile. The
fragrance around him overpowered his senses, the music from the
harps sounded more entrancing, while around the tree appeared millions
of smiling faces, nodding and singing. "Man should know everything;
man is the lord of the earth." The tree of knowledge no longer wept
tears of blood, for the dewdrops shone like glittering stars.

"Come, come," continued that thrilling voice, and the prince
followed the call. At every step his cheeks glowed, and the blood
rushed wildly through his veins. "I must follow," he cried; "it is not
a sin, it cannot be, to follow beauty and joy. I only want to see
her sleep, and nothing will happen unless I kiss her, and that I
will not do, for I have strength to resist, and a determined will."

The fairy threw off her dazzling attire, bent back the boughs, and
in another moment was hidden among them.

"I have not sinned yet," said the prince, "and I will not;" and
then he pushed aside the boughs to follow the princess. She was
lying already asleep, beautiful as only a fairy in the garden of
paradise could be. She smiled as he bent over her, and he saw tears
trembling out of her beautiful eyelashes. "Do you weep for me?" he
whispered. "Oh weep not, thou loveliest of women. Now do I begin to
understand the happiness of paradise; I feel it to my inmost soul,
in every thought. A new life is born within me. One moment of such
happiness is worth an eternity of darkness and woe." He stooped and
kissed the tears from her eyes, and touched her lips with his.