The General and the General's lady talked to each other in their
room about the porter's son--how he knew how to behave, and to express
himself with the greatest propriety.

"He might be a tutor," said the General.

"Intellect!" said the General's lady; but she did not say anything
more.

During the beautiful summer-time Mr. George several times
visited the Count at his castle; and he was missed when he did not
come.

"How much the good God has given you that he has not given to us
poor mortals," said Emily to him. "Are you sure you are very
grateful for it?"

It flattered George that the lovely young girl should look up to
him, and he thought then that Emily had unusually good abilities.
And the General felt more and more convinced that George was no
cellar-child.

"His mother was a very good woman," he observed. "It is only right
I should do her that justice now she is in her grave."

The summer passed away, and the winter came; again there was
talk about Mr. George. He was highly respected, and was received in
the first circles. The General had met him at a court ball.

And now there was a ball to be given in the General's house for
Emily, and could Mr. George be invited to it?

"He whom the King invites can be invited by the General also,"
said the General, and drew himself up till he stood quite an inch
higher than before.

Mr. George was invited, and he came; princes and counts came,
and they danced, one better than the other. But Emily could only dance
one dance--the first; for she made a false step--nothing of
consequence; but her foot hurt her, so that she had to be careful, and
leave off dancing, and look at the others. So she sat and looked on,
and the architect stood by her side.

"I suppose you are giving her the whole history of St. Peter's,"
said the General, as he passed by; and smiled, like the
personification of patronage.

With the same patronizing smile he received Mr. George a few
days afterwards. The young man came, no doubt, to return thanks for
the invitation to the ball. What else could it be? But indeed there
was something else, something very astonishing and startling. He spoke
words of sheer lunacy, so that the General could hardly believe his
own ears. It was "the height of rhodomontade," an offer, quite an
inconceivable offer--Mr. George came to ask the hand of Emily in
marriage!