Have you ever seen an old wooden cupboard quite black with age,
and ornamented with carved foliage and curious figures? Well, just
such a cupboard stood in a parlor, and had been left to the family
as a legacy by the great-grandmother. It was covered from top to
bottom with carved roses and tulips; the most curious scrolls were
drawn upon it, and out of them peeped little stags' heads, with
antlers. In the middle of the cupboard door was the carved figure of a
man most ridiculous to look at. He grinned at you, for no one could
call it laughing. He had goat's legs, little horns on his head, and
a long beard; the children in the room always called him, "Major
general-field-sergeant-commander Billy-goat's-legs." It was
certainly a very difficult name to pronounce, and there are very few
who ever receive such a title, but then it seemed wonderful how he
came to be carved at all; yet there he was, always looking at the
table under the looking-glass, where stood a very pretty little
shepherdess made of china. Her shoes were gilt, and her dress had a
red rose or an ornament. She wore a hat, and carried a crook, that
were both gilded, and looked very bright and pretty. Close by her side
stood a little chimney-sweep, as black as coal, and also made of
china. He was, however, quite as clean and neat as any other china
figure; he only represented a black chimney-sweep, and the china
workers might just as well have made him a prince, had they felt
inclined to do so. He stood holding his ladder quite handily, and
his face was as fair and rosy as a girl's; indeed, that was rather a
mistake, it should have had some black marks on it. He and the
shepherdess had been placed close together, side by side; and, being
so placed, they became engaged to each other, for they were very
well suited, being both made of the same sort of china, and being
equally fragile. Close to them stood another figure, three times as
large as they were, and also made of china. He was an old Chinaman,
who could nod his head, and used to pretend that he was the
grandfather of the shepherdess, although he could not prove it. He
however assumed authority over her, and therefore when
"Major-general-field-sergeant-commander Billy-goat's-legs" asked for
the little shepherdess to be his wife, he nodded his head to show that
he consented. "You will have a husband," said the old Chinaman to her,
"who I really believe is made of mahogany. He will make you a lady
of Major-general-field-sergeant-commander Billy-goat's-legs. He has
the whole cupboard full of silver plate, which he keeps locked up in
secret drawers."

"I won't go into the dark cupboard," said the little
shepherdess. "I have heard that he has eleven china wives there
already."