"The third time never fails," said Charley, as he threw out his line
again. He waited now until the cork was pulled clear under water; then
he lifted it out, without too much haste, and, sure enough, he had
caught a fish.

How long do you suppose it had taken him to do it? Pretty nearly all the
forenoon. No matter! he had one fish to carry home, and he had had a
real good time besides.

Charley has caught many a mess of fish since then; but I doubt if he has
ever enjoyed the sport more than he did in catching that one fish.

UNCLE SAM.

A SLIGHT MISTAKE.

A DONKEY walking with a lion, fancied himself a lion also, and pretended
not to know his own brother.

THE HEN-YARD DOOR.

WHEN careless Tommy fed the fowls,
      He did not shut the door;
    Out came the rooster and the hens;
      Out came the pullets four;
    Out came old Speckle-wings, with six
      Bewitching little Bantam chicks.

At once the hens began to cluck,
      The cock began to crow,
    And here and there, and everywhere,
      They seemed possessed to go;
    They pecked the turnips; in a patch
    Of spinach they began to scratch:
    And when to drive them in we tried
    They straightway to our neighbors hied.

Upon our right, a new-made lawn
      Was just with grass-seed sown;
    Upon our left, a garden-plot
      With pinks and lilies shone.
    In rushed our right-hand neighbor's son,
      With flaming face, and said,
    "'Shut up your hens,' my father says,
      Or he will shoot them dead."
    Our left-hand neighbor wrote a note,--
      "I all the spring have toiled
    To rear the lovely flowers I find
      Your roving fowls have spoiled."

To get them home, the livelong day
    We tried, till evening gathered gray:
    Then back to roost returned the cock,
    But some were missing from his flock.
    Four hens were with him; where were two?
    Perhaps our right-hand neighbor knew!
    Back came the pullets, having fed
    On dainty pinks, and roses red;
    Back came old Speckle; of her six
    The cat had caught three little chicks.

We shut the door, and made it fast;
    We all were glad the day was past:
    We'd lost our hens, and lost our friends;
      Our neighbors smile no more;
    And all because our careless Tom
      Forgot to shut the door!

MARIAN DOUGLAS.

TWO GAMES.

HERE is a boy, full ten years old, playing with a peg-top. What a sight!
He might find some better game, I should think. Why is he not out of
doors playing baseball? He is big enough to use his arms and legs?

This girl could teach him a much better game than peg-top. She is out on
the lawn, all ready to play croquet. She will have fun and fresh air at
the same time. Those are two things that all girls and boys need.

C. B. A.

MORE ABOUT "ZIP COON."