But, after a while, Zip Coon became so fierce that Isabella didn't know
what to do with him. She was afraid he would do something terrible to
somebody: so she gave him to a man who carried him way off where
Isabella and her sisters never saw him any more. And this is all I have
to tell you about Zip Coon.

HELEN MARR.

SAM AND HIS GOATS.

SAM was a boy about five years old. He lived in the country, and had a
nice little black-and-tan dog, Jack, to play with him. Sam wanted a
goat. He thought that if he could only have a goat, he would be
perfectly happy.

One day, when Sam was playing in the yard, his papa came driving home
from town, with something tied in the bottom of the wagon. When he saw
Sam, he stopped the horse and called, "Sam, come here, I have something
for you."

Sam ran there as fast as he could, and--what do you think?--papa lifted
two little goats out of the wagon, and put them down on the ground. One
goat was black and one was white. Sam was so glad he did not know what
to to do. He just jumped up and down with delight.

Then the dog Jack came running out to see the goats too; but he did not
like them much. He barked at them as hard as he could; but the goats did
not mind him at all.

Pretty soon mamma came to see what Sam had. When she saw the goats, she
said, "Why, papa, what will become of us if we have two goats on the
place?" But she was glad because Sam was glad; and Sam gave his papa
about a hundred kisses to thank him for the goats.

For some weeks, the goats ran about the yard, and ate the grass; and Sam
gave them water to drink, out of his little pail, and salt to eat, out
of his hand. He liked to feel their soft tongues on his hand as they ate
the salt. The goats would jump and run and play, and Sam thought it was
fine fun to run and play with them. Jack would run too, and bark all the
time.

But by and by Sam began to get tired of his goats, and his mamma was
more tired of them than Sam was. They ate the tops off of her nice
rose-bushes; they ran over her flower-beds; and one day, when the door
was open, one of them ran into the parlor and jumped up on the best
sofa.

Mamma said this would never do: so the next day papa found a man who
said he would give Sam fifty cents for the white goat. As Sam wanted to
buy a drum, he was glad to sell the goat; and with fifty cents in his
pocket he felt very rich.