Then the other goat was put in the orchard, and he liked it there very
much. He liked to have Sam come and play with him. As soon as he saw Sam
coming, he would run to meet him, and push him with his head, in play,
and try to jump on him.

The goat grew very fast,--much faster than Sam did; so that soon he was
quite a big goat, while Sam was still a very small boy. He got to be so
much stronger that Sam, that Sam was a little afraid of him.

One day, when they were playing, the goat hit Sam with his head, and
knocked him down. Sam was scared. He got up, fast as he could, and tried
to run to the gate; but the goat ran after him, and Sam had to climb
into a tree. It was a nice apple-tree. Sam had often sat up there
before, and liked it; but, now that he was forced to sit there, he did
not like it at all.

The goat staid at the foot of the tree, and, when Sam tried to come
down, he would shake his head at him, as if to say, "Come down if you
dare." Sam did not dare. "Oh, dear!" said he, "what shall I do?"

There were some green apples on the tree; and Sam thought, that, if he
threw them at the goat, he could drive him away: so he began to pick the
apples, and throw them at the goat.

The first one hit the goat right on his head; but it did not hurt him at
all. He just went to where the apple lay, and ate it up; and every time
that Sam threw an apple at him the goat would eat it, and then look at
Sam, as if to say, "That is good. Give me some more."

At last Sam said, "Oh, you bad, bad goat! I wish you would go away. If
you don't go away, I'm afraid I shall cry." Then he thought of Jack, and
called, "Here, Jack! Here, Jack!" Jack came running up to see what Sam
wanted. Sam said, "At him, Jack! At him, Jack!"

Jack ran at the goat, and barked at him and tried to bite him; but the
goat kept turning his head to Jack, so that Jack could not get a chance
to bite him. At last the goat got tired of hearing Jack bark, and
thought he would give him one hard knock, and drive him away.

So he took a step or two back, and then ran forward, as hard as he
could, to hit Jack. But, when his head got to where Jack had been, Jack
was not there: he had jumped away. The goat was going so fast, that he
could not stop himself, but tumbled over his head, and came down on his
back with his legs sticking up in the air.