Sam laughed so hard that he almost fell out of the tree, and Jack was so
glad, that he jumped and barked, and tried to bite the goat's legs. At
last the goat got up and walked over to the other side of the orchard as
far as he could go. Then Sam jumped down out of the tree, and ran to
tell his mamma all about it.

MARY DEY.

TOY-LAND.

AND how do you get to Toy-land?
    To all little people the joy-land.
        Just follow your nose,
        And go on tip-toes:
    It's only a minute to Toy-land.

And oh! but it's gay in Toy-land,--
    This bright, merry girl-and-boy-land;
        And woolly dogs white
        That never will bite
    You'll meet on the highways in Toy-land.

Society's fine in Toy-land;
    The dollies all think it a joy-land;
        And folks in the ark
        Stay out after dark;
      And tin soldiers regulate Toy-land.

There's fun all the year in Toy-land:
    To sorrow 'twas ever a coy-land;
        And steamboats are run,
        And steam-cars, for fun:
    They're wound up with keys down in Toy-land.

Bold jumping-jacks thrive in Toy-land;
    Fine castles adorn this joy-land;
        And bright are the dreams,
        And sunny the beams,
    That gladden the faces in Toy-land.

How long do we live in Toy-land?--
    This bright, merry girl-and-boy-land;
        A few days, at best,
        We stay as a guest,
    Then good-by forever to Toy-land!

GEORGE COOPER.

MARY'S SQUIRREL.

I WANT to tell you about the little squirrel we have. His name is
Frisky. He came from New Jersey, and was quite tame when we got him. We
thought it would be better to let him out in the fresh air among the
trees; so we let him out.

I was away at aunt Lizzie's; but I came home early. Just as Henry and I
were going to bed,--Henry is my brother,--the cook called me, and, of
course, Henry came after me to see what was the matter.

I could not understand what it was at first; but pretty soon I saw it
was Frisky up in one of the trees on our place. Frisky never bites: so
it was not much trouble to catch him.

All the servants were there; but they could not catch him, because he
did not know them: so I made them stand back, and held out a peanut to
him. He came down and ate it; then he trusted me, and came down and ate
another. As soon as I got him within reach, I seized him and gave him to
William, the gardener, who, while I held the door open, popped him into
his cage. I am eight years old, and my name is

MARY WINSOR.

A TURTLE SHOW.