DOWN in the pond, where willows grow
    Along the shore in a golden row,
      Is a single rock with its mossy ridge,
    And a log as mossy, resting there
    Half in the water, and half in the air,
      From shore to islet a beautiful bridge;
    And the lily-pads on either side
    Might tempt the little green frogs to ride;
    And the lily-blooms, so purely made,
    Do tempt the little white feet to wade.

What do you think I saw one day
    In the month of June, as I passed that way?
    Five little turtles, all in a row,
    On the top of the log,--a funny show,--
    For they carried their houses on their backs,
    And tucked their toes out through the cracks
    Under the eaves! while their heads and tails
    Played hide-and-seek behind the scales.

They had golden dots on every shell;
    And they stood so still, and "dressed" so well,
    You might think they were called up to spell;
    And a "master" turtle, big and brown,
    On the top of the rock sat looking down
    In a learned way, as you might say
    To "put out words,"--and perhaps 'twas so,
    Though I heard no word,--but this, I know,
    The five little heads looked so very wise
    With their little bead eyes, they must have heard
    If ever the master pronounced a word.

In school or not, it was getting hot;
    And by and by, as the sun rose high,
    With the June-like drowsiness it sheds,
    They could not keep from going to sleep;
    And what do you think they did with their heads?
    Swallowed them! Oh, then, laugh, if you will;
    But true it is, still:
    Into their necks, as a sailor would slide
    His spy-glass into its leathern hide,
    They slid their five little heads away
    From the sight of man and the light of day.

While I stood watching them, still as a mouse,
    Pleased at their comical way to keep house,
      I heard a terrible splash and croak,
    As a great bull-frog leapt up on the log,
      In a way to frighten such simple folk.
    Five little turtles, quick as a wink,
    Into the water slip and sink;
    And one big turtle, just as quick,
    Off from the log goes down like a brick.

Ah, well! my turtles are not like boys,
    They can live in the pond, and they do hate noise!

GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.

THE CHIMNEY-SWEEP.

LITTLE Mary in the picture is afraid of Jacob, the chimney-sweep. He
does look black and ugly; but he is a good boy, for all that, and Mary
ought not to be afraid of him.

His parents died when he was very small, and he was bound out to a
master, who taught him how to clean chimneys. Jacob did not like the
work at first, and was afraid to go up the chimney; but now that he has
got used to it, he likes it quite well. He sometimes sings a merry song
while he is at work.