Mary's mother has sent for him to come and clean out her chimney; for it
is choked up with soot, and she cannot make her fire burn.

LEONORA, from the German.

BILLY AND BRUISER.

BILLY is a small boy: Bruiser is a big dog. They are great friends.
Billy gets on Bruiser's back, and treats him as if he were a horse.

Bruiser takes this as a good joke. He likes to have Billy play with him
in this way. But it would not be safe for anybody else to do it.

Bruiser is a grand watch-dog. One day the old dog gave a fierce growl to
keep off a butterfly.

He thought the butterfly was going to attack Billy. Billy had a good
laugh at this; for, small as he is, he thinks he is a match for a
butterfly.

UNCLE CHARLES.

TWO LITTLE MAIDENS.

THIS little maiden is out for a walk,
    A fair little maiden is she;
    And I really believe she is having a talk
    With a bird flying down from a tree.
    She asks him to tell of his home in the woods;
    He sings of the summer so gay;
    While a very tall maiden sits by on the grass,
    And hears every word that they say.

F. E. D.

"IF I WERE ONLY A KING."

ONE fine, warm, summer day, four children were playing together in the
garden.

"Oh!" said one of them, "if I were only a king, I would live in a
beautiful castle that should reach up to the clouds."

"And I," said another, "would wear nothing but gold and silver clothes."

"If I were one," cried a little boy, "I would do nothing but eat cake
and pudding all day long."

"And I," said a little girl, blushing, "would give money to all the poor
children I saw, so that they might buy food and clothes."

Which of these children do you think would have made the best ruler?

LEONORA, from the German.

USE BEFORE BEAUTY.

THE hens and turkeys were scratching for their breakfast in front of the
barn-door; while the dog lay lazily looking on. The proud peacock stood
on the fence near by, and spread his tail out, that the morning sun
might shine on it, and make it still more beautiful.

"Ah!" said the peacock to one of the hens, "do you not wish that you
were as handsome as I am? Then you would never have to scratch for your
food, but would be fed and taken care of and admired."

"I wish nothing of the kind," said the hen. "There is something which
men prize more than beauty, and that is usefulness. If I were as fine
and gay as you are, men would miss the eggs I lay."

"That is just my view of the case," said a goose. "If I were not a
goose, I should like to be a hen. I would not be a lazy peacock."