"Why, yes, he's a beauty," said she. "Just look at that little red cap
he wears, and see how soft and white his skin is. If nobody had picked
that apple, he would have spun a little rope from out his body, and let
himself down from the high tree, down, down, to the earth.

"Then he would have crawled into a little hole in the ground. When he
had covered himself all over with a gray sheet, he would sleep, sleep,
sleep. But by and by he would awaken.

"He would come out of the tight shroud, and find that he had airy, gauzy
wings with which he could fly: so he would go flitting and fluttering up
into the warm sunshine to find an apple-blossom."

"What would he want of an apple-blossom?" asked Tommy, much interested
now in his apple-worm.

"Oh, to lay an egg in," said mamma. "And, when the apple-blossoms grew,
the egg would be softly wrapped within its pink heart. And when the
blossom turned into an apple there would be a tiny baby-worm to feed
upon the white pulp. Then some day, perhaps, some other little boy would
exclaim, 'Bah! ugh! oh!' about him, as my little boy did just now about
the mamma-worm."

"Oh!" said Tom thoughtfully. "I'm glad nobody will have that chance:
here goes."

And he tossed the apple, worm and all, out of the window.

MRS. G. I. HOPKINS.

SEE-SAW.

Words by GEORGE COOPER.             Music by T. CRAMPTON.

1. See-saw! high and low,
       That's the way we love to go.
           With a bound,
             Up we fly,
           From the ground
             To the sky;
           From the ground
             To the sky.
       All aboard for Fun-land, oh!
       See-saw! high and low.

2. See-saw! birdies play
       On the tree-tops, just this way;
           And the bees
             Rock the rose,
           When they please
             With their toes!
       And the winds the wavelets blow,
       See-saw! high and low.

3. See-saw! oh, what sport!
       Wish the days were not so short!
           Girls and boys,
             Everywhere,
           Rosy joys,
             Earth so fair!
       Gayer playmates do you know?
       See-saw! high and low.

*       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes: Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

The original text for the July issue had a table of contents that
spanned six issues. This was divided amongst those issues.

Additionally, only the July issue had a title page. This page was copied
for the remaining five issues. Each issue had the number added on the
title page after the Volume number.