Louis XIV. had long been the enemy of the Dutch, who insulted or
ridiculed him to their hearts’ content, although it must be said that
they generally used French refugees for the mouthpiece of their spite.
Their national pride held him up as the Mithridates of the Republic.
The brothers De Witt, therefore, had to strive against a double
difficulty,--against the force of national antipathy, and, besides,
against the feeling of weariness which is natural to all vanquished
people, when they hope that a new chief will be able to save them from
ruin and shame.

This new chief, quite ready to appear on the political stage, and to
measure himself against Louis XIV., however gigantic the fortunes of the
Grand Monarch loomed in the future, was William, Prince of Orange, son
of William II., and grandson, by his mother Henrietta Stuart, of Charles
I. of England. We have mentioned him before as the person by whom the
people expected to see the office of Stadtholder restored.

This young man was, in 1672, twenty-two years of age. John de Witt, who
was his tutor, had brought him up with the view of making him a good
citizen. Loving his country better than he did his disciple, the master
had, by the Perpetual Edict, extinguished the hope which the young
Prince might have entertained of one day becoming Stadtholder. But God
laughs at the presumption of man, who wants to raise and prostrate the
powers on earth without consulting the King above; and the fickleness
and caprice of the Dutch combined with the terror inspired by Louis
XIV., in repealing the Perpetual Edict, and re-establishing the office
of Stadtholder in favour of William of Orange, for whom the hand of
Providence had traced out ulterior destinies on the hidden map of the
future.

The Grand Pensionary bowed before the will of his fellow citizens;
Cornelius de Witt, however, was more obstinate, and notwithstanding all
the threats of death from the Orangist rabble, who besieged him in his
house at Dort, he stoutly refused to sign the act by which the office of
Stadtholder was restored. Moved by the tears and entreaties of his wife,
he at last complied, only adding to his signature the two letters V. C.
(Vi Coactus), notifying thereby that he only yielded to force.

It was a real miracle that on that day he escaped from the doom intended
for him.

John de Witt derived no advantage from his ready compliance with the
wishes of his fellow citizens. Only a few days after, an attempt
was made to stab him, in which he was severely although not mortally
wounded.

This by no means suited the views of the Orange faction. The life of
the two brothers being a constant obstacle to their plans, they changed
their tactics, and tried to obtain by calumny what they had not been
able to effect by the aid of the poniard.