How rarely does it happen that, in the right moment, a great man is
found to head the execution of vast and noble designs; and for that
reason, when such a providential concurrence of circumstances does
occur, history is prompt to record the name of the chosen one, and to
hold him up to the admiration of posterity. But when Satan interposes
in human affairs to cast a shadow upon some happy existence, or to
overthrow a kingdom, it seldom happens that he does not find at his side
some miserable tool, in whose ear he has but to whisper a word to set
him at once about his task.

The wretched tool who was at hand to be the agent of this dastardly
plot was one Tyckelaer whom we have already mentioned, a surgeon by
profession.

He lodged an information against Cornelius de Witt, setting forth that
the warden--who, as he had shown by the letters added to his signature,
was fuming at the repeal of the Perpetual Edict--had, from hatred
against William of Orange, hired an assassin to deliver the new Republic
of its new Stadtholder; and he, Tyckelaer was the person thus chosen;
but that, horrified at the bare idea of the act which he was asked to
perpetrate, he had preferred rather to reveal the crime than to commit
it.

This disclosure was, indeed, well calculated to call forth a furious
outbreak among the Orange faction. The Attorney General caused, on the
16th of August, 1672, Cornelius de Witt to be arrested; and the noble
brother of John de Witt had, like the vilest criminal, to undergo, in
one of the apartments of the town prison, the preparatory degrees of
torture, by means of which his judges expected to force from him the
confession of his alleged plot against William of Orange.

But Cornelius was not only possessed of a great mind, but also of a
great heart. He belonged to that race of martyrs who, indissolubly
wedded to their political convictions as their ancestors were to their
faith, are able to smile on pain: while being stretched on the rack, he
recited with a firm voice, and scanning the lines according to measure,
the first strophe of the “Justum ac tenacem” of Horace, and, making no
confession, tired not only the strength, but even the fanaticism, of his
executioners.

The judges, notwithstanding, acquitted Tyckelaer from every charge; at
the same time sentencing Cornelius to be deposed from all his offices
and dignities; to pay all the costs of the trial; and to be banished
from the soil of the Republic for ever.

This judgment against not only an innocent, but also a great man,
was indeed some gratification to the passions of the people, to whose
interests Cornelius de Witt had always devoted himself: but, as we shall
soon see, it was not enough.