Whereupon the jailer, a sort of bear, trained to lock and unlock the
gates of the prison, had greeted him and admitted him into the building,
the doors of which were immediately closed again.

Ten yards farther on, John de Witt met a lovely young girl, of about
seventeen or eighteen, dressed in the national costume of the Frisian
women, who, with pretty demureness, dropped a curtesy to him. Chucking
her under the chin, he said to her,--

“Good morning, my good and fair Rosa; how is my brother?”

“Oh, Mynheer John!” the young girl replied, “I am not afraid of the harm
which has been done to him. That’s all over now.”

“But what is it you are afraid of?”

“I am afraid of the harm which they are going to do to him.”

“Oh, yes,” said De Witt, “you mean to speak of the people down below,
don’t you?”

“Do you hear them?”

“They are indeed in a state of great excitement; but when they see us
perhaps they will grow calmer, as we have never done them anything but
good.”

“That’s unfortunately no reason, except for the contrary,” muttered the
girl, as, on an imperative sign from her father, she withdrew.

“Indeed, child, what you say is only too true.”

Then, in pursuing his way, he said to himself,--

“Here is a damsel who very likely does not know how to read, who
consequently has never read anything, and yet with one word she has just
told the whole history of the world.”

And with the same calm mien, but more melancholy than he had been on
entering the prison, the Grand Pensionary proceeded towards the cell of
his brother.

Chapter 2. The Two Brothers

As the fair Rosa, with foreboding doubt, had foretold, so it happened.
Whilst John de Witt was climbing the narrow winding stairs which led to
the prison of his brother Cornelius, the burghers did their best to have
the troop of Tilly, which was in their way, removed.

Seeing this disposition, King Mob, who fully appreciated the laudable
intentions of his own beloved militia, shouted most lustily,--

“Hurrah for the burghers!”

As to Count Tilly, who was as prudent as he was firm, he began to parley
with the burghers, under the protection of the cocked pistols of his
dragoons, explaining to the valiant townsmen, that his order from the
States commanded him to guard the prison and its approaches with three
companies.

“Wherefore such an order? Why guard the prison?” cried the Orangists.

“Stop,” replied the Count, “there you at once ask me more than I
can tell you. I was told, ‘Guard the prison,’ and I guard it. You,
gentlemen, who are almost military men yourselves, you are aware that an
order must never be gainsaid.”

“But this order has been given to you that the traitors may be enabled
to leave the town.”

“Very possibly, as the traitors are condemned to exile,” replied Tilly.

“But who has given this order?”

“The States, to be sure!”

“The States are traitors.”