“I don’t know anything about that!”

“And you are a traitor yourself!”

“I?”

“Yes, you.”

“Well, as to that, let us understand each other gentlemen. Whom should
I betray? The States? Why, I cannot betray them, whilst, being in their
pay, I faithfully obey their orders.”

As the Count was so indisputably in the right that it was impossible
to argue against him, the mob answered only by redoubled clamour and
horrible threats, to which the Count opposed the most perfect urbanity.

“Gentlemen,” he said, “uncock your muskets, one of them may go off by
accident; and if the shot chanced to wound one of my men, we should
knock over a couple of hundreds of yours, for which we should, indeed,
be very sorry, but you even more so; especially as such a thing is
neither contemplated by you nor by myself.”

“If you did that,” cried the burghers, “we should have a pop at you,
too.”

“Of course you would; but suppose you killed every man Jack of us, those
whom we should have killed would not, for all that, be less dead.”

“Then leave the place to us, and you will perform the part of a good
citizen.”

“First of all,” said the Count, “I am not a citizen, but an officer,
which is a very different thing; and secondly, I am not a Hollander, but
a Frenchman, which is more different still. I have to do with no one but
the States, by whom I am paid; let me see an order from them to leave
the place to you, and I shall only be too glad to wheel off in an
instant, as I am confoundedly bored here.”

“Yes, yes!” cried a hundred voices; the din of which was immediately
swelled by five hundred others; “let us march to the Town-hall; let us
go and see the deputies! Come along! come along!”

“That’s it,” Tilly muttered between his teeth, as he saw the most
violent among the crowd turning away; “go and ask for a meanness at
the Town-hall, and you will see whether they will grant it; go, my fine
fellows, go!”

The worthy officer relied on the honour of the magistrates, who, on
their side, relied on his honour as a soldier.

“I say, Captain,” the first lieutenant whispered into the ear of the
Count, “I hope the deputies will give these madmen a flat refusal;
but, after all, it would do no harm if they would send us some
reinforcement.”

In the meanwhile, John de Witt, whom we left climbing the stairs, after
the conversation with the jailer Gryphus and his daughter Rosa, had
reached the door of the cell, where on a mattress his brother Cornelius
was resting, after having undergone the preparatory degrees of the
torture. The sentence of banishment having been pronounced, there was no
occasion for inflicting the torture extraordinary.