“I am quite healed; help me to get up, and you shall see how I can
walk.”

“You will not have to walk far, as I have my coach near the pond, behind
Tilly’s dragoons.”

“Tilly’s dragoons! What are they near the pond for?”

“Well,” said the Grand Pensionary with a melancholy smile which was
habitual to him, “the gentlemen at the Town-hall expect that the
people at the Hague would like to see you depart, and there is some
apprehension of a tumult.”

“Of a tumult?” replied Cornelius, fixing his eyes on his perplexed
brother; “a tumult?”

“Yes, Cornelius.”

“Oh! that’s what I heard just now,” said the prisoner, as if speaking to
himself. Then, turning to his brother, he continued,--

“Are there many persons down before the prison.”

“Yes, my brother, there are.”

“But then, to come here to me----”

“Well?”

“How is it that they have allowed you to pass?”

“You know well that we are not very popular, Cornelius,” said the Grand
Pensionary, with gloomy bitterness. “I have made my way through all
sorts of bystreets and alleys.”

“You hid yourself, John?”

“I wished to reach you without loss of time, and I did what people will
do in politics, or on the sea when the wind is against them,--I tacked.”

At this moment the noise in the square below was heard to roar with
increasing fury. Tilly was parleying with the burghers.

“Well, well,” said Cornelius, “you are a very skilful pilot, John; but I
doubt whether you will as safely guide your brother out of the Buytenhof
in the midst of this gale, and through the raging surf of popular
hatred, as you did the fleet of Van Tromp past the shoals of the Scheldt
to Antwerp.”

“With the help of God, Cornelius, we’ll at least try,” answered John;
“but, first of all, a word with you.”

“Speak!”

The shouts began anew.

“Hark, hark!” continued Cornelius, “how angry those people are! Is it
against you, or against me?”

“I should say it is against us both, Cornelius. I told you, my dear
brother, that the Orange party, while assailing us with their absurd
calumnies, have also made it a reproach against us that we have
negotiated with France.”

“What blockheads they are!”

“But, indeed, they reproach us with it.”

“And yet, if these negotiations had been successful, they would have
prevented the defeats of Rees, Orsay, Wesel, and Rheinberg; the Rhine
would not have been crossed, and Holland might still consider herself
invincible in the midst of her marshes and canals.”