“All this is quite true, my dear Cornelius, but still more certain
it is, that if at this moment our correspondence with the Marquis de
Louvois were discovered, skilful pilot as I am, I should not be able to
save the frail barque which is to carry the brothers De Witt and their
fortunes out of Holland. That correspondence, which might prove to
honest people how dearly I love my country, and what sacrifices I have
offered to make for its liberty and glory, would be ruin to us if it
fell into the hands of the Orange party. I hope you have burned the
letters before you left Dort to join me at the Hague.”

“My dear brother,” Cornelius answered, “your correspondence with M. de
Louvois affords ample proof of your having been of late the greatest,
most generous, and most able citizen of the Seven United Provinces. I
rejoice in the glory of my country; and particularly do I rejoice
in your glory, John. I have taken good care not to burn that
correspondence.”

“Then we are lost, as far as this life is concerned,” quietly said the
Grand Pensionary, approaching the window.

“No, on the contrary, John, we shall at the same time save our lives and
regain our popularity.”

“But what have you done with these letters?”

“I have intrusted them to the care of Cornelius van Baerle, my godson,
whom you know, and who lives at Dort.”

“Poor honest Van Baerle! who knows so much, and yet thinks of nothing
but of flowers and of God who made them. You have intrusted him with
this fatal secret; it will be his ruin, poor soul!”

“His ruin?”

“Yes, for he will either be strong or he will be weak. If he is
strong, he will, when he hears of what has happened to us, boast of
our acquaintance; if he is weak, he will be afraid on account of his
connection with us: if he is strong, he will betray the secret by his
boldness; if he is weak, he will allow it to be forced from him. In
either case he is lost, and so are we. Let us, therefore, fly, fly, as
long as there is still time.”

Cornelius de Witt, raising himself on his couch, and grasping the
hand of his brother, who shuddered at the touch of his linen bandages,
replied,--

“Do not I know my godson? have not I been enabled to read every thought
in Van Baerle’s mind, and every sentiment in his heart? You ask whether
he is strong or weak. He is neither the one nor the other; but that is
not now the question. The principal point is, that he is sure not to
divulge the secret, for the very good reason that he does not know it
himself.”

John turned round in surprise.