Mynheer Bowelt wished to speak, but his words were not heard, and he was
only seen moving his arms in all sorts of gestures, which plainly showed
that he felt his position to be desperate. When, at last, he saw that he
could not make himself heard, he turned round towards the open window,
and called Mynheer d’Asperen.

The latter gentleman now made his appearance on the balcony, where he
was saluted with shouts even more energetic than those with which, ten
minutes before, his colleague had been received.

This did not prevent him from undertaking the difficult task of
haranguing the mob; but the mob preferred forcing the guard of
the States--which, however, offered no resistance to the sovereign
people--to listening to the speech of Mynheer d’Asperen.

“Now, then,” the young man coolly remarked, whilst the crowd was rushing
into the principal gate of the Town-hall, “it seems the question will be
discussed indoors, Captain. Come along, and let us hear the debate.”

“Oh, Monseigneur! Monseigneur! take care!”

“Of what?”

“Among these deputies there are many who have had dealings with you,
and it would be sufficient, that one of them should recognize your
Highness.”

“Yes, that I might be charged with having been the instigator of all
this work, indeed, you are right,” said the young man, blushing for
a moment from regret of having betrayed so much eagerness. “From
this place we shall see them return with or without the order for the
withdrawal of the dragoons, then we may judge which is greater, Mynheer
Bowelt’s honesty or his courage.”

“But,” replied the officer, looking with astonishment at the personage
whom he addressed as Monseigneur, “but your Highness surely does not
suppose for one instant that the deputies will order Tilly’s horse to
quit their post?”

“Why not?” the young man quietly retorted.

“Because doing so would simply be signing the death warrant of Cornelius
and John de Witt.”

“We shall see,” his Highness replied, with the most perfect coolness;
“God alone knows what is going on within the hearts of men.”

The officer looked askance at the impassible figure of his companion,
and grew pale: he was an honest man as well as a brave one.

From the spot where they stood, his Highness and his attendant heard
the tumult and the heavy tramp of the crowd on the staircase of the
Town-hall. The noise thereupon sounded through the windows of the hall,
on the balcony of which Mynheers Bowelt and D’Asperen had presented
themselves. These two gentlemen had retired into the building, very
likely from fear of being forced over the balustrade by the pressure of
the crowd.

After this, fluctuating shadows in tumultuous confusion were seen
flitting to and fro across the windows: the council hall was filling.

Suddenly the noise subsided, and as suddenly again it rose with
redoubled intensity, and at last reached such a pitch that the old
building shook to the very roof.