A savage yell, in which all the keen hatred and ferocious triumph
rife in the precincts of the prison simultaneously burst forth, and
accompanied the departure of the dragoons, as they were quietly filing
off.

The Count tarried behind, facing to the last the infuriated populace,
which advanced at the same rate as the Count retired.

John de Witt, therefore, had by no means exaggerated the danger,
when, assisting his brother in getting up, he hurried his departure.
Cornelius, leaning on the arm of the Ex-Grand Pensionary, descended the
stairs which led to the courtyard. At the bottom of the staircase he
found little Rosa, trembling all over.

“Oh, Mynheer John,” she said, “what a misfortune!”

“What is it, my child?” asked De Witt.

“They say that they are gone to the Town-hall to fetch the order for
Tilly’s horse to withdraw.”

“You do not say so!” replied John. “Indeed, my dear child, if the
dragoons are off, we shall be in a very sad plight.”

“I have some advice to give you,” Rosa said, trembling even more
violently than before.

“Well, let us hear what you have to say, my child. Why should not God
speak by your mouth?”

“Now, then, Mynheer John, if I were in your place, I should not go out
through the main street.”

“And why so, as the dragoons of Tilly are still at their post?”

“Yes, but their order, as long as it is not revoked, enjoins them to
stop before the prison.”

“Undoubtedly.”

“Have you got an order for them to accompany you out of the town?”

“We have not?”

“Well, then, in the very moment when you have passed the ranks of the
dragoons you will fall into the hands of the people.”

“But the burgher guard?”

“Alas! the burgher guard are the most enraged of all.”

“What are we to do, then?”

“If I were in your place, Mynheer John,” the young girl timidly
continued, “I should leave by the postern, which leads into a deserted
by-lane, whilst all the people are waiting in the High Street to see you
come out by the principal entrance. From there I should try to reach the
gate by which you intend to leave the town.”

“But my brother is not able to walk,” said John.

“I shall try,” Cornelius said, with an expression of most sublime
fortitude.

“But have you not got your carriage?” asked the girl.

“The carriage is down near the great entrance.”

“Not so,” she replied. “I considered your coachman to be a faithful man,
and I told him to wait for you at the postern.”

The two brothers looked first at each other, and then at Rosa, with a
glance full of the most tender gratitude.

“The question is now,” said the Grand Pensionary, “whether Gryphus will
open this door for us.”

“Indeed, he will do no such thing,” said Rosa.

“Well, and how then?”