“I have foreseen his refusal, and just now whilst he was talking from
the window of the porter’s lodge with a dragoon, I took away the key
from his bunch.”

“And you have got it?”

“Here it is, Mynheer John.”

“My child,” said Cornelius, “I have nothing to give you in exchange for
the service you are rendering us but the Bible which you will find in
my room; it is the last gift of an honest man; I hope it will bring you
good luck.”

“I thank you, Master Cornelius, it shall never leave me,” replied Rosa.

And then, with a sigh, she said to herself, “What a pity that I do not
know how to read!”

“The shouts and cries are growing louder and louder,” said John; “there
is not a moment to be lost.”

“Come along, gentlemen,” said the girl, who now led the two brothers
through an inner lobby to the back of the prison. Guided by her,
they descended a staircase of about a dozen steps; traversed a small
courtyard, which was surrounded by castellated walls; and, the arched
door having been opened for them by Rosa, they emerged into a lonely
street where their carriage was ready to receive them.

“Quick, quick, my masters! do you hear them?” cried the coachman, in a
deadly fright.

Yet, after having made Cornelius get into the carriage first, the Grand
Pensionary turned round towards the girl, to whom he said,--

“Good-bye, my child! words could never express our gratitude. God will
reward you for having saved the lives of two men.”

Rosa took the hand which John de Witt proffered to her, and kissed it
with every show of respect.

“Go! for Heaven’s sake, go!” she said; “it seems they are going to force
the gate.”

John de Witt hastily got in, sat himself down by the side of his
brother, and, fastening the apron of the carriage, called out to the
coachman,--

“To the Tol-Hek!”

The Tol-Hek was the iron gate leading to the harbor of Schevening, in
which a small vessel was waiting for the two brothers.

The carriage drove off with the fugitives at the full speed of a pair
of spirited Flemish horses. Rosa followed them with her eyes until they
turned the corner of the street, upon which, closing the door after her,
she went back and threw the key into a cell.

The noise which had made Rosa suppose that the people were forcing the
prison door was indeed owing to the mob battering against it after the
square had been left by the military.

Solid as the gate was, and although Gryphus, to do him justice, stoutly
enough refused to open it, yet evidently it could not resist much
longer, and the jailer, growing very pale, put to himself the question
whether it would not be better to open the door than to allow it to be
forced, when he felt some one gently pulling his coat.

He turned round and saw Rosa.

“Do you hear these madmen?” he said.