And indeed, some more faces, furious and contorted with rage, showed
themselves at the windows, crying,--

“Escaped, gone, they have helped them off!”

And the people in the street repeated, with fearful imprecations,--

“Escaped! gone! After them, and catch them!”

“Monseigneur, it seems that Mynheer Cornelius has really escaped,” said
the officer.

“Yes, from prison, perhaps, but not from the town; you will see, Van
Deken, that the poor fellow will find the gate closed against him which
he hoped to find open.”

“Has an order been given to close the town gates, Monseigneur?”

“No,--at least I do not think so; who could have given such an order?”

“Indeed, but what makes your Highness suppose?”

“There are fatalities,” Monseigneur replied, in an offhand manner; “and
the greatest men have sometimes fallen victims to such fatalities.”

At these words the officer felt his blood run cold, as somehow or other
he was convinced that the prisoner was lost.

At this moment the roar of the multitude broke forth like thunder, for
it was now quite certain that Cornelius de Witt was no longer in the
prison.

Cornelius and John, after driving along the pond, had taken the main
street, which leads to the Tol-Hek, giving directions to the coachman to
slacken his pace, in order not to excite any suspicion.

But when, on having proceeded half-way down that street, the man felt
that he had left the prison and death behind, and before him there was
life and liberty, he neglected every precaution, and set his horses off
at a gallop.

All at once he stopped.

“What is the matter?” asked John, putting his head out of the coach
window.

“Oh, my masters!” cried the coachman, “it is----”

Terror choked the voice of the honest fellow.

“Well, say what you have to say!” urged the Grand Pensionary.

“The gate is closed, that’s what it is.”

“How is this? It is not usual to close the gate by day.”

“Just look!”

John de Witt leaned out of the window, and indeed saw that the man was
right.

“Never mind, but drive on,” said John, “I have with me the order for the
commutation of the punishment, the gate-keeper will let us through.”

The carriage moved along, but it was evident that the driver was no
longer urging his horses with the same degree of confidence.

Moreover, as John de Witt put his head out of the carriage window, he
was seen and recognized by a brewer, who, being behind his companions,
was just shutting his door in all haste to join them at the Buytenhof.
He uttered a cry of surprise, and ran after two other men before him,
whom he overtook about a hundred yards farther on, and told them what he
had seen. The three men then stopped, looking after the carriage, being
however not yet quite sure as to whom it contained.

The carriage in the meanwhile arrived at the Tol-Hek.

“Open!” cried the coachman.