The officer saw this sign of compassion, and, wishing to avail himself
of this softened tone of his feelings, continued,--

“Come, come, Monseigneur, for here they are also going to murder the
Grand Pensionary.”

But the young man had already opened his eyes again.

“To be sure,” he said. “These people are really implacable. It does no
one good to offend them.”

“Monseigneur,” said the officer, “may not one save this poor man, who
has been your Highness’s instructor? If there be any means, name it, and
if I should perish in the attempt----”

William of Orange--for he it was--knit his brows in a very forbidding
manner, restrained the glance of gloomy malice which glistened in his
half-closed eye, and answered,--

“Captain Van Deken, I request you to go and look after my troops, that
they may be armed for any emergency.”

“But am I to leave your Highness here, alone, in the presence of all
these murderers?”

“Go, and don’t you trouble yourself about me more than I do myself,” the
Prince gruffly replied.

The officer started off with a speed which was much less owing to his
sense of military obedience than to his pleasure at being relieved from
the necessity of witnessing the shocking spectacle of the murder of the
other brother.

He had scarcely left the room, when John--who, with an almost superhuman
effort, had reached the stone steps of a house nearly opposite that
where his former pupil concealed himself--began to stagger under the
blows which were inflicted on him from all sides, calling out,--

“My brother! where is my brother?”

One of the ruffians knocked off his hat with a blow of his clenched
fist.

Another showed to him his bloody hands; for this fellow had ripped open
Cornelius and disembowelled him, and was now hastening to the spot in
order not to lose the opportunity of serving the Grand Pensionary in the
same manner, whilst they were dragging the dead body of Cornelius to the
gibbet.

John uttered a cry of agony and grief, and put one of his hands before
his eyes.

“Oh, you close your eyes, do you?” said one of the soldiers of the
burgher guard; “well, I shall open them for you.”

And saying this he stabbed him with his pike in the face, and the blood
spurted forth.

“My brother!” cried John de Witt, trying to see through the stream of
blood which blinded him, what had become of Cornelius; “my brother, my
brother!”

“Go and run after him!” bellowed another murderer, putting his musket to
his temples and pulling the trigger.

But the gun did not go off.

The fellow then turned his musket round, and, taking it by the barrel
with both hands, struck John de Witt down with the butt-end. John
staggered and fell down at his feet, but, raising himself with a last
effort, he once more called out,--

“My brother!” with a voice so full of anguish that the young man
opposite closed the shutter.