There remained little more to see; a third murderer fired a pistol with
the muzzle to his face; and this time the shot took effect, blowing out
his brains. John de Witt fell to rise no more.

On this, every one of the miscreants, emboldened by his fall, wanted to
fire his gun at him, or strike him with blows of the sledge-hammer,
or stab him with a knife or swords, every one wanted to draw a drop of
blood from the fallen hero, and tear off a shred from his garments.

And after having mangled, and torn, and completely stripped the
two brothers, the mob dragged their naked and bloody bodies to an
extemporised gibbet, where amateur executioners hung them up by the
feet.

Then came the most dastardly scoundrels of all, who not having dared to
strike the living flesh, cut the dead in pieces, and then went about
the town selling small slices of the bodies of John and Cornelius at ten
sous a piece.

We cannot take upon ourselves to say whether, through the almost
imperceptible chink of the shutter, the young man witnessed the
conclusion of this shocking scene; but at the very moment when they were
hanging the two martyrs on the gibbet he passed through the terrible
mob, which was too much absorbed in the task, so grateful to its taste,
to take any notice of him, and thus he reached unobserved the Tol-Hek,
which was still closed.

“Ah! sir,” said the gatekeeper, “do you bring me the key?”

“Yes, my man, here it is.”

“It is most unfortunate that you did not bring me that key only one
quarter of an hour sooner,” said the gatekeeper, with a sigh.

“And why that?” asked the other.

“Because I might have opened the gate to Mynheers de Witt; whereas,
finding the gate locked, they were obliged to retrace their steps.”

“Gate! gate!” cried a voice which seemed to be that of a man in a hurry.

The Prince, turning round, observed Captain Van Deken.

“Is that you, Captain?” he said. “You are not yet out of the Hague? This
is executing my orders very slowly.”

“Monseigneur,” replied the Captain, “this is the third gate at which I
have presented myself; the other two were closed.”

“Well, this good man will open this one for you; do it, my friend.”

The last words were addressed to the gatekeeper, who stood quite
thunderstruck on hearing Captain Van Deken addressing by the title of
Monseigneur this pale young man, to whom he himself had spoken in such a
familiar way.

As it were to make up for his fault, he hastened to open the gate, which
swung creaking on its hinges.

“Will Monseigneur avail himself of my horse?” asked the Captain.

“I thank you, Captain, I shall use my own steed, which is waiting for me
close at hand.”