It was the time when the Dutch and the Portuguese, rivalling each other
in this branch of horticulture, had begun to worship that flower, and
to make more of a cult of it than ever naturalists dared to make of the
human race for fear of arousing the jealousy of God.

Soon people from Dort to Mons began to talk of Mynheer van Baerle’s
tulips; and his beds, pits, drying-rooms, and drawers of bulbs
were visited, as the galleries and libraries of Alexandria were by
illustrious Roman travellers.

Van Baerle began by expending his yearly revenue in laying the
groundwork of his collection, after which he broke in upon his new
guilders to bring it to perfection. His exertions, indeed, were crowned
with a most magnificent result: he produced three new tulips, which he
called the “Jane,” after his mother; the “Van Baerle,” after his father;
and the “Cornelius,” after his godfather; the other names have escaped
us, but the fanciers will be sure to find them in the catalogues of the
times.

In the beginning of the year 1672, Cornelius de Witt came to Dort for
three months, to live at his old family mansion; for not only was he
born in that city, but his family had been resident there for centuries.

Cornelius, at that period, as William of Orange said, began to enjoy the
most perfect unpopularity. To his fellow citizens, the good burghers of
Dort, however, he did not appear in the light of a criminal who deserved
to be hung. It is true, they did not particularly like his somewhat
austere republicanism, but they were proud of his valour; and when he
made his entrance into their town, the cup of honour was offered to him,
readily enough, in the name of the city.

After having thanked his fellow citizens, Cornelius proceeded to his old
paternal house, and gave directions for some repairs, which he wished to
have executed before the arrival of his wife and children; and thence
he wended his way to the house of his godson, who perhaps was the only
person in Dort as yet unacquainted with the presence of Cornelius in the
town.

In the same degree as Cornelius de Witt had excited the hatred of the
people by sowing those evil seeds which are called political passions,
Van Baerle had gained the affections of his fellow citizens by
completely shunning the pursuit of politics, absorbed as he was in the
peaceful pursuit of cultivating tulips.

Van Baerle was truly beloved by his servants and labourers; nor had
he any conception that there was in this world a man who wished ill to
another.