And yet it must be said, to the disgrace of mankind, that Cornelius
van Baerle, without being aware of the fact, had a much more ferocious,
fierce, and implacable enemy than the Grand Pensionary and his brother
had among the Orange party, who were most hostile to the devoted
brothers, who had never been sundered by the least misunderstanding
during their lives, and by their mutual devotion in the face of death
made sure the existence of their brotherly affection beyond the grave.

At the time when Cornelius van Baerle began to devote himself to
tulip-growing, expending on this hobby his yearly revenue and the
guilders of his father, there was at Dort, living next door to him, a
citizen of the name of Isaac Boxtel who from the age when he was able to
think for himself had indulged the same fancy, and who was in ecstasies
matters relating to this flower) is the first word in the Cingalese
tongue which was ever used to designate that masterpiece of floriculture
which is now called the tulip.

Boxtel had not the good fortune of being rich, like Van Baerle. He
had therefore, with great care and patience, and by dint of strenuous
exertions, laid out near his house at Dort a garden fit for the culture
of his cherished flower; he had mixed the soil according to the most
approved prescriptions, and given to his hotbeds just as much heat and
fresh air as the strictest rules of horticulture exact.

Isaac knew the temperature of his frames to the twentieth part of a
degree. He knew the strength of the current of air, and tempered it so
as to adapt it to the wave of the stems of his flowers. His productions
also began to meet with the favour of the public. They were beautiful,
nay, distinguished. Several fanciers had come to see Boxtel’s tulips.
At last he had even started amongst all the Linnaeuses and Tourneforts a
tulip which bore his name, and which, after having travelled all through
France, had found its way into Spain, and penetrated as far as Portugal;
and the King, Don Alfonso VI.--who, being expelled from Lisbon, had
retired to the island of Terceira, where he amused himself, not,
like the great Condé, with watering his carnations, but with growing
tulips--had, on seeing the Boxtel tulip, exclaimed, “Not so bad, by any
means!”

All at once, Cornelius van Baerle, who, after all his learned pursuits,
had been seized with the tulipomania, made some changes in his house
at Dort, which, as we have stated, was next door to that of Boxtel. He
raised a certain building in his court-yard by a story, which shutting
out the sun, took half a degree of warmth from Boxtel’s garden, and, on
the other hand, added half a degree of cold in winter; not to mention
that it cut the wind, and disturbed all the horticultural calculations
and arrangements of his neighbour.