After all, this mishap appeared to Boxtel of no great consequence. Van
Baerle was but a painter, a sort of fool who tried to reproduce and
disfigure on canvas the wonders of nature. The painter, he thought, had
raised his studio by a story to get better light, and thus far he had
only been in the right. Mynheer van Baerle was a painter, as Mynheer
Boxtel was a tulip-grower; he wanted somewhat more sun for his
paintings, and he took half a degree from his neighbour’s tulips.

The law was for Van Baerle, and Boxtel had to abide by it.

Besides, Isaac had made the discovery that too much sun was injurious to
tulips, and that this flower grew quicker, and had a better colouring,
with the temperate warmth of morning, than with the powerful heat of the
midday sun. He therefore felt almost grateful to Cornelius van Baerle
for having given him a screen gratis.

Maybe this was not quite in accordance with the true state of things in
general, and of Isaac Boxtel’s feelings in particular. It is certainly
astonishing what rich comfort great minds, in the midst of momentous
catastrophes, will derive from the consolations of philosophy.

But alas! What was the agony of the unfortunate Boxtel on seeing the
windows of the new story set out with bulbs and seedlings of tulips for
the border, and tulips in pots; in short, with everything pertaining to
the pursuits of a tulip-monomaniac!

There were bundles of labels, cupboards, and drawers with compartments,
and wire guards for the cupboards, to allow free access to the air
whilst keeping out slugs, mice, dormice, and rats, all of them very
curious fanciers of tulips at two thousand francs a bulb.

Boxtel was quite amazed when he saw all this apparatus, but he was not
as yet aware of the full extent of his misfortune. Van Baerle was known
to be fond of everything that pleases the eye. He studied Nature in all
her aspects for the benefit of his paintings, which were as minutely
finished as those of Gerard Dow, his master, and of Mieris, his
friend. Was it not possible, that, having to paint the interior of a
tulip-grower’s, he had collected in his new studio all the accessories
of decoration?

Yet, although thus consoling himself with illusory suppositions, Boxtel
was not able to resist the burning curiosity which was devouring him.
In the evening, therefore, he placed a ladder against the partition
wall between their gardens, and, looking into that of his neighbour Van
Baerle, he convinced himself that the soil of a large square bed, which
had formerly been occupied by different plants, was removed, and the
ground disposed in beds of loam mixed with river mud (a combination
sufficient shade to temper the noonday heat; aspect south-southwest;
water in abundant supply, and at hand; in short, every requirement to
insure not only success but also progress. There could not be a doubt
that Van Baerle had become a tulip-grower.