Boxtel heard him give the order, and saw the sentry-box put up that
very day; but he deemed himself lucky in not having been suspected, and,
being more than ever incensed against the successful horticulturist, he
resolved to bide his time.

Just then the Tulip Society of Haarlem offered a prize for the discovery
(we dare not say the manufacture) of a large black tulip without a
spot of colour, a thing which had not yet been accomplished, and was
considered impossible, as at that time there did not exist a flower of
that species approaching even to a dark nut brown. It was, therefore,
generally said that the founders of the prize might just as well have
offered two millions as a hundred thousand guilders, since no one would
be able to gain it.

The tulip-growing world, however, was thrown by it into a state of most
active commotion. Some fanciers caught at the idea without believing it
practicable, but such is the power of imagination among florists, that
although considering the undertaking as certain to fail, all their
thoughts were engrossed by that great black tulip, which was looked upon
to be as chimerical as the black swan of Horace or the white raven of
French tradition.

Van Baerle was one of the tulip-growers who were struck with the idea;
Boxtel thought of it in the light of a speculation. Van Baerle, as soon
as the idea had once taken root in his clear and ingenious mind, began
slowly the necessary planting and cross-breeding to reduce the tulips
which he had grown already from red to brown, and from brown to dark
brown.

Boxtel espied them in the border, whereas he had himself as yet only
succeeded in producing the light brown.

It might perhaps be interesting to explain to the gentle reader the
beautiful chain of theories which go to prove that the tulip borrows its
colors from the elements; perhaps we should give him pleasure if we were
to maintain and establish that nothing is impossible for a florist who
avails himself with judgment and discretion and patience of the sun’s
heat, the clear water, the juices of the earth, and the cool breezes.
But this is not a treatise upon tulips in general; it is the story of
one particular tulip which we have undertaken to write, and to that we
limit ourselves, however alluring the subject which is so closely allied
to ours.

Boxtel, once more worsted by the superiority of his hated rival, was
now completely disgusted with tulip-growing, and, being driven half mad,
devoted himself entirely to observation.