The house of his rival was quite open to view; a garden exposed to the
sun; cabinets with glass walls, shelves, cupboards, boxes, and ticketed
pigeon-holes, which could easily be surveyed by the telescope. Boxtel
allowed his bulbs to rot in the pits, his seedlings to dry up in their
cases, and his tulips to wither in the borders and henceforward occupied
himself with nothing else but the doings at Van Baerle’s. He breathed
through the stalks of Van Baerle’s tulips, quenched his thirst with the
water he sprinkled upon them, and feasted on the fine soft earth which
his neighbour scattered upon his cherished bulbs.

But the most curious part of the operations was not performed in the
garden.

It might be one o’clock in the morning when Van Baerle went up to his
laboratory, into the glazed cabinet whither Boxtel’s telescope had such
an easy access; and here, as soon as the lamp illuminated the walls and
windows, Boxtel saw the inventive genius of his rival at work.

He beheld him sifting his seeds, and soaking them in liquids which were
destined to modify or to deepen their colours. He knew what Cornelius
meant when heating certain grains, then moistening them, then combining
them with others by a sort of grafting,--a minute and marvellously
delicate manipulation,--and when he shut up in darkness those which were
expected to furnish the black colour, exposed to the sun or to the
lamp those which were to produce red, and placed between the endless
reflections of two water-mirrors those intended for white, the pure
representation of the limpid element.

This innocent magic, the fruit at the same time of child-like musings
and of manly genius--this patient untiring labour, of which Boxtel knew
himself to be incapable--made him, gnawed as he was with envy, centre
all his life, all his thoughts, and all his hopes in his telescope.

For, strange to say, the love and interest of horticulture had not
deadened in Isaac his fierce envy and thirst of revenge. Sometimes,
whilst covering Van Baerle with his telescope, he deluded himself into a
belief that he was levelling a never-failing musket at him; and then he
would seek with his finger for the trigger to fire the shot which was
to have killed his neighbour. But it is time that we should connect with
this epoch of the operations of the one, and the espionage of the other,
the visit which Cornelius de Witt came to pay to his native town.

Chapter 7. The Happy Man makes Acquaintance with Misfortune

Cornelius de Witt, after having attended to his family affairs, reached
the house of his godson, Cornelius van Baerle, one evening in the month
of January, 1672.