De Witt, although being very little of a horticulturist or of an
artist, went over the whole mansion, from the studio to the green-house,
inspecting everything, from the pictures down to the tulips. He thanked
his godson for having joined him on the deck of the admiral’s ship “The
Seven Provinces,” during the battle of Southwold Bay, and for having
given his name to a magnificent tulip; and whilst he thus, with the
kindness and affability of a father to a son, visited Van Baerle’s
treasures, the crowd gathered with curiosity, and even respect, before
the door of the happy man.

All this hubbub excited the attention of Boxtel, who was just taking his
meal by his fireside. He inquired what it meant, and, on being informed
of the cause of all this stir, climbed up to his post of observation,
where in spite of the cold, he took his stand, with the telescope to his
eye.

This telescope had not been of great service to him since the autumn of
1671. The tulips, like true daughters of the East, averse to cold, do
not abide in the open ground in winter. They need the shelter of the
house, the soft bed on the shelves, and the congenial warmth of the
stove. Van Baerle, therefore, passed the whole winter in his laboratory,
in the midst of his books and pictures. He went only rarely to the room
where he kept his bulbs, unless it were to allow some occasional rays
of the sun to enter, by opening one of the movable sashes of the glass
front.

On the evening of which we are speaking, after the two Corneliuses had
visited together all the apartments of the house, whilst a train of
domestics followed their steps, De Witt said in a low voice to Van
Baerle,--

“My dear son, send these people away, and let us be alone for some
minutes.”

The younger Cornelius, bowing assent, said aloud,--

“Would you now, sir, please to see my dry-room?”

The dry-room, this pantheon, this sanctum sanctorum of the
tulip-fancier, was, as Delphi of old, interdicted to the profane
uninitiated.

Never had any of his servants been bold enough to set his foot there.
Cornelius admitted only the inoffensive broom of an old Frisian
housekeeper, who had been his nurse, and who from the time when he
had devoted himself to the culture of tulips ventured no longer to put
onions in his stews, for fear of pulling to pieces and mincing the idol
of her foster child.

At the mere mention of the dry-room, therefore, the servants who were
carrying the lights respectfully fell back. Cornelius, taking the
candlestick from the hands of the foremost, conducted his godfather into
that room, which was no other than that very cabinet with a glass front
into which Boxtel was continually prying with his telescope.

The envious spy was watching more intently than ever.

First of all he saw the walls and windows lit up.

Then two dark figures appeared.