One of them, tall, majestic, stern, sat down near the table on which Van
Baerle had placed the taper.

In this figure, Boxtel recognised the pale features of Cornelius de
Witt, whose long hair, parted in front, fell over his shoulders.

De Witt, after having said some few words to Cornelius, the meaning of
which the prying neighbour could not read in the movement of his lips,
took from his breast pocket a white parcel, carefully sealed, which
Boxtel, judging from the manner in which Cornelius received it, and
placed it in one of the presses, supposed to contain papers of the
greatest importance.

His first thought was that this precious deposit enclosed some newly
imported bulbs from Bengal or Ceylon; but he soon reflected that
Cornelius de Witt was very little addicted to tulip-growing, and that
he only occupied himself with the affairs of man, a pursuit by far less
peaceful and agreeable than that of the florist. He therefore came to
the conclusion that the parcel contained simply some papers, and that
these papers were relating to politics.

But why should papers of political import be intrusted to Van Baerle,
who not only was, but also boasted of being, an entire stranger to
the science of government, which, in his opinion, was more occult than
alchemy itself?

was placing in the hands of his godson; a contrivance so much the more
cleverly devised, as it certainly was not at all likely that it should
be searched for at the house of one who had always stood aloof from
every sort of intrigue.

And, besides, if the parcel had been made up of bulbs, Boxtel knew his
neighbour too well not to expect that Van Baerle would not have lost one
moment in satisfying his curiosity and feasting his eyes on the present
which he had received.

But, on the contrary, Cornelius had received the parcel from the hands
of his godfather with every mark of respect, and put it by with the same
respectful manner in a drawer, stowing it away so that it should not
take up too much of the room which was reserved to his bulbs.

The parcel thus being secreted, Cornelius de Witt got up, pressed the
hand of his godson, and turned towards the door, Van Baerle seizing the
candlestick, and lighting him on his way down to the street, which was
still crowded with people who wished to see their great fellow citizen
getting into his coach.

Boxtel had not been mistaken in his supposition. The deposit intrusted
to Van Baerle, and carefully locked up by him, was nothing more nor less
than John de Witt’s correspondence with the Marquis de Louvois, the war
minister of the King of France; only the godfather forbore giving to his
godson the least intimation concerning the political importance of the
secret, merely desiring him not to deliver the parcel to any one but to
himself, or to whomsoever he should send to claim it in his name.