“Oh, my dear child, my worthy master!” cried the old housekeeper, who
now likewise made her appearance in the dry-room, “take your gold, your
jewelry, and fly, fly!”

“But how shall I make my escape, nurse?” said Van Baerle.

“Jump out of the window.”

“Twenty-five feet from the ground!”

“But you will fall on six feet of soft soil!”

“Yes, but I should fall on my tulips.”

“Never mind, jump out.”

Cornelius took the third bulb, approached the window and opened it, but
seeing what havoc he would necessarily cause in his borders, and, more
than this, what a height he would have to jump, he called out, “Never!”
 and fell back a step.

At this moment they saw across the banister of the staircase the points
of the halberds of the soldiers rising.

The housekeeper raised her hands to heaven.

As to Cornelius van Baerle, it must be stated to his honour, not as a
man, but as a tulip-fancier, his only thought was for his inestimable
bulbs.

Looking about for a paper in which to wrap them up, he noticed the
fly-leaf from the Bible, which Craeke had laid upon the table, took it
without in his confusion remembering whence it came, folded in it the
three bulbs, secreted them in his bosom, and waited.

At this very moment the soldiers, preceded by a magistrate, entered the
room.

“Are you Dr. Cornelius van Baerle?” demanded the magistrate (who,
although knowing the young man very well, put his question according to
the forms of justice, which gave his proceedings a much more dignified
air).

“I am that person, Master van Spennen,” answered Cornelius, politely, to
his judge, “and you know it very well.”

“Then give up to us the seditious papers which you secrete in your
house.”

“The seditious papers!” repeated Cornelius, quite dumfounded at the
imputation.

“Now don’t look astonished, if you please.”

“I vow to you, Master van Spennen,” Cornelius replied, “that I am
completely at a loss to understand what you want.”

“Then I shall put you in the way, Doctor,” said the judge; “give up to
us the papers which the traitor Cornelius de Witt deposited with you in
the month of January last.”

A sudden light came into the mind of Cornelius.

“Halloa!” said Van Spennen, “you begin now to remember, don’t you?”

“Indeed I do, but you spoke of seditious papers, and I have none of that
sort.”

“You deny it then?”

“Certainly I do.”

The magistrate turned round and took a rapid survey of the whole
cabinet.

“Where is the apartment you call your dry-room?” he asked.

“The very same where you now are, Master van Spennen.”

The magistrate cast a glance at a small note at the top of his papers.

“All right,” he said, like a man who is sure of his ground.

Then, turning round towards Cornelius, he continued, “Will you give up
those papers to me?”