“But I cannot, Master van Spennen; those papers do not belong to me;
they have been deposited with me as a trust, and a trust is sacred.”

“Dr. Cornelius,” said the judge, “in the name of the States, I order you
to open this drawer, and to give up to me the papers which it contains.”

Saying this, the judge pointed with his finger to the third drawer of
the press, near the fireplace.

In this very drawer, indeed the papers deposited by the Warden of the
Dikes with his godson were lying; a proof that the police had received
very exact information.

“Ah! you will not,” said Van Spennen, when he saw Cornelius standing
immovable and bewildered, “then I shall open the drawer myself.”

And, pulling out the drawer to its full length, the magistrate at first
alighted on about twenty bulbs, carefully arranged and ticketed, and
then on the paper parcel, which had remained in exactly the same state
as it was when delivered by the unfortunate Cornelius de Witt to his
godson.

The magistrate broke the seals, tore off the envelope, cast an eager
glance on the first leaves which met his eye and then exclaimed, in a
terrible voice,--

“Well, justice has been rightly informed after all!”

“How,” said Cornelius, “how is this?”

“Don’t pretend to be ignorant, Mynheer van Baerle,” answered the
magistrate. “Follow me.”

“How’s that! follow you?” cried the Doctor.

“Yes, sir, for in the name of the States I arrest you.”

Arrests were not as yet made in the name of William of Orange; he had
not been Stadtholder long enough for that.

“Arrest me!” cried Cornelius; “but what have I done?”

“That’s no affair of mine, Doctor; you will explain all that before your
judges.”

“Where?”

“At the Hague.”

Cornelius, in mute stupefaction, embraced his old nurse, who was in
a swoon; shook hands with his servants, who were bathed in tears, and
followed the magistrate, who put him in a coach as a prisoner of state
and had him driven at full gallop to the Hague.

Chapter 8. An Invasion

The incident just related was, as the reader has guessed before this,
the diabolical work of Mynheer Isaac Boxtel.

It will be remembered that, with the help of his telescope, not even the
least detail of the private meeting between Cornelius de Witt and Van
Baerle had escaped him. He had, indeed, heard nothing, but he had seen
everything, and had rightly concluded that the papers intrusted by the
Warden to the Doctor must have been of great importance, as he saw Van
Baerle so carefully secreting the parcel in the drawer where he used to
keep his most precious bulbs.