The upshot of all this was that when Boxtel, who watched the course of
political events much more attentively than his neighbour Cornelius was
used to do, heard the news of the brothers De Witt being arrested on a
charge of high treason against the States, he thought within his heart
that very likely he needed only to say one word, and the godson would be
arrested as well as the godfather.

Yet, full of happiness as was Boxtel’s heart at the chance, he at first
shrank with horror from the idea of informing against a man whom this
information might lead to the scaffold.

But there is this terrible thing in evil thoughts, that evil minds soon
grow familiar with them.

Besides this, Mynheer Isaac Boxtel encouraged himself with the following
sophism:--

“Cornelius de Witt is a bad citizen, as he is charged with high treason,
and arrested.

“I, on the contrary, am a good citizen, as I am not charged with
anything in the world, as I am as free as the air of heaven.

“If, therefore, Cornelius de Witt is a bad citizen,--of which there
can be no doubt, as he is charged with high treason, and arrested,--his
accomplice, Cornelius van Baerle, is no less a bad citizen than himself.

“And, as I am a good citizen, and as it is the duty of every good
citizen to inform against the bad ones, it is my duty to inform against
Cornelius van Baerle.”

Specious as this mode of reasoning might sound, it would not perhaps
have taken so complete a hold of Boxtel, nor would he perhaps have
yielded to the mere desire of vengeance which was gnawing at his heart,
had not the demon of envy been joined with that of cupidity.

Boxtel was quite aware of the progress which Van Baerle had made towards
producing the grand black tulip.

Dr. Cornelius, notwithstanding all his modesty, had not been able to
hide from his most intimate friends that he was all but certain to win,
in the year of grace 1673, the prize of a hundred thousand guilders
offered by the Horticultural Society of Haarlem.

It was just this certainty of Cornelius van Baerle that caused the fever
which raged in the heart of Isaac Boxtel.

If Cornelius should be arrested there would necessarily be a great upset
in his house, and during the night after his arrest no one would think
of keeping watch over the tulips in his garden.

Now in that night Boxtel would climb over the wall and, as he knew the
position of the bulb which was to produce the grand black tulip, he
would filch it; and instead of flowering for Cornelius, it would flower
for him, Isaac; he also, instead of Van Baerle, would have the prize
of a hundred thousand guilders, not to speak of the sublime honour of
calling the new flower Tulipa nigra Boxtellensis,--a result which would
satisfy not only his vengeance, but also his cupidity and his ambition.