Awake, he thought of nothing but the grand black tulip; asleep, he
dreamed of it.

At last, on the 19th of August, about two o’clock in the afternoon,
the temptation grew so strong, that Mynheer Isaac was no longer able to
resist it.

Accordingly, he wrote an anonymous information, the minute exactness of
which made up for its want of authenticity, and posted his letter.

Never did a venomous paper, slipped into the jaws of the bronze lions at
Venice, produce a more prompt and terrible effect.

On the same evening the letter reached the principal magistrate, who
without a moment’s delay convoked his colleagues early for the next
morning. On the following morning, therefore, they assembled, and
decided on Van Baerle’s arrest, placing the order for its execution in
the hands of Master van Spennen, who, as we have seen, performed his
duty like a true Hollander, and who arrested the Doctor at the very hour
when the Orange party at the Hague were roasting the bleeding shreds of
flesh torn from the corpses of Cornelius and John de Witt.

But, whether from a feeling of shame or from craven weakness, Isaac
Boxtel did not venture that day to point his telescope either at the
garden, or at the laboratory, or at the dry-room.

He knew too well what was about to happen in the house of the poor
doctor to feel any desire to look into it. He did not even get up when
his only servant--who envied the lot of the servants of Cornelius just
as bitterly as Boxtel did that of their master--entered his bedroom. He
said to the man,--

“I shall not get up to-day, I am ill.”

About nine o’clock he heard a great noise in the street which made him
tremble, at this moment he was paler than a real invalid, and shook more
violently than a man in the height of fever.

His servant entered the room; Boxtel hid himself under the counterpane.

“Oh, sir!” cried the servant, not without some inkling that, whilst
deploring the mishap which had befallen Van Baerle, he was announcing
agreeable news to his master,--“oh, sir! you do not know, then, what is
happening at this moment?”

“How can I know it?” answered Boxtel, with an almost unintelligible
voice.

“Well, Mynheer Boxtel, at this moment your neighbour Cornelius van
Baerle is arrested for high treason.”

“Nonsense!” Boxtel muttered, with a faltering voice; “the thing is
impossible.”

“Faith, sir, at any rate that’s what people say; and, besides, I have
seen Judge van Spennen with the archers entering the house.”

“Well, if you have seen it with your own eyes, that’s a different case
altogether.”

“At all events,” said the servant, “I shall go and inquire once more. Be
you quiet, sir, I shall let you know all about it.”

Boxtel contented himself with signifying his approval of the zeal of his
servant by dumb show.

The man went out, and returned in half an hour.

“Oh, sir, all that I told you is indeed quite true.”

“How so?”