This vision lasted but a moment,--much less time than we have taken to
describe it. Gryphus then proceeded on his way, Cornelius was forced to
follow him, and five minutes afterwards he entered his prison, of which
it is unnecessary to say more, as the reader is already acquainted with
it.

Gryphus pointed with his finger to the bed on which the martyr had
suffered so much, who on that day had rendered his soul to God. Then,
taking up his cresset, he quitted the cell.

Thus left alone, Cornelius threw himself on his bed, but he slept not,
he kept his eye fixed on the narrow window, barred with iron, which
looked on the Buytenhof; and in this way saw from behind the trees that
first pale beam of light which morning sheds on the earth as a white
mantle.

Now and then during the night horses had galloped at a smart pace over
the Buytenhof, the heavy tramp of the patrols had resounded from the
pavement, and the slow matches of the arquebuses, flaring in the east
wind, had thrown up at intervals a sudden glare as far as to the panes
of his window.

But when the rising sun began to gild the coping stones at the gable
ends of the houses, Cornelius, eager to know whether there was any
living creature about him, approached the window, and cast a sad look
round the circular yard before him.

At the end of the yard a dark mass, tinted with a dingy blue by the
morning dawn, rose before him, its dark outlines standing out in
contrast to the houses already illuminated by the pale light of early
morning.

Cornelius recognised the gibbet.

On it were suspended two shapeless trunks, which indeed were no more
than bleeding skeletons.

The good people of the Hague had chopped off the flesh of its victims,
but faithfully carried the remainder to the gibbet, to have a pretext
for a double inscription written on a huge placard, on which Cornelius;
with the keen sight of a young man of twenty-eight, was able to read the
following lines, daubed by the coarse brush of a sign-painter:--

“Here are hanging the great rogue of the name of John de Witt, and the
little rogue Cornelius de Witt, his brother, two enemies of the people,
but great friends of the king of France.”

Cornelius uttered a cry of horror, and in the agony of his frantic
terror knocked with his hands and feet at the door so violently and
continuously, that Gryphus, with his huge bunch of keys in his hand, ran
furiously up.

The jailer opened the door, with terrible imprecations against the
prisoner who disturbed him at an hour which Master Gryphus was not
accustomed to be aroused.

“Well, now, by my soul, he is mad, this new De Witt,” he cried, “but all
those De Witts have the devil in them.”

“Master, master,” cried Cornelius, seizing the jailer by the arm and
dragging him towards the window,--“master, what have I read down there?”