“Where down there?”

“On that placard.”

And, trembling, pale, and gasping for breath, he pointed to the gibbet
at the other side of the yard, with the cynical inscription surmounting
it.

Gryphus broke out into a laugh.

“Eh! eh!” he answered, “so, you have read it. Well, my good sir, that’s
what people will get for corresponding with the enemies of his Highness
the Prince of Orange.”

“The brothers De Witt are murdered!” Cornelius muttered, with the cold
sweat on his brow, and sank on his bed, his arms hanging by his side,
and his eyes closed.

“The brothers De Witt have been judged by the people,” said Gryphus;
“you call that murdered, do you? well, I call it executed.”

And seeing that the prisoner was not only quiet, but entirely prostrate
and senseless, he rushed from the cell, violently slamming the door, and
noisily drawing the bolts.

Recovering his consciousness, Cornelius found himself alone, and
recognised the room where he was,--“the family cell,” as Gryphus had
called it,--as the fatal passage leading to ignominious death.

And as he was a philosopher, and, more than that, as he was a Christian,
he began to pray for the soul of his godfather, then for that of the
Grand Pensionary, and at last submitted with resignation to all the
sufferings which God might ordain for him.

Then turning again to the concerns of earth, and having satisfied
himself that he was alone in his dungeon, he drew from his breast the
three bulbs of the black tulip, and concealed them behind a block of
stone, on which the traditional water-jug of the prison was standing, in
the darkest corner of his cell.

Useless labour of so many years! such sweet hopes crushed! His discovery
was, after all, to lead to naught, just as his own career was to be cut
short. Here, in his prison, there was not a trace of vegetation, not an
atom of soil, not a ray of sunshine.

At this thought Cornelius fell into a gloomy despair, from which he was
only aroused by an extraordinary circumstance.

What was this circumstance?

We shall inform the reader in our next chapter.

Chapter 10. The Jailer’s Daughter

On the same evening Gryphus, as he brought the prisoner his mess,
slipped on the damp flags whilst opening the door of the cell, and fell,
in the attempt to steady himself, on his hand; but as it was turned the
wrong way, he broke his arm just above the wrist.

Cornelius rushed forward towards the jailer, but Gryphus, who was not
yet aware of the serious nature of his injury, called out to him,--

“It is nothing: don’t you stir.”

He then tried to support himself on his arm, but the bone gave way; then
only he felt the pain, and uttered a cry.

When he became aware that his arm was broken, this man, so harsh to
others, fell swooning on the threshold, where he remained motionless and
cold, as if dead.