But whilst he was about to withdraw, Cornelius asked, “By the bye, Mr.
Recorder, what day is the thing--you know what I mean--to take place?”

“Why, to-day,” answered the Recorder, a little surprised by the
self-possession of the condemned man.

A sob was heard behind the door, and Cornelius turned round to look from
whom it came; but Rosa, who had foreseen this movement, had fallen back.

“And,” continued Cornelius, “what hour is appointed?”

“Twelve o’clock, sir.”

“Indeed,” said Cornelius, “I think I heard the clock strike ten about
twenty minutes ago; I have not much time to spare.”

“Indeed you have not, if you wish to make your peace with God,” said
the Recorder, bowing to the ground. “You may ask for any clergyman you
please.”

Saying these words he went out backwards, and the assistant turnkey was
going to follow him, and to lock the door of Cornelius’s cell, when a
white and trembling arm interposed between him and the heavy door.

Cornelius saw nothing but the golden brocade cap, tipped with lace, such
as the Frisian girls wore; he heard nothing but some one whispering into
the ear of the turnkey. But the latter put his heavy keys into the
white hand which was stretched out to receive them, and, descending
Cornelius beheld the face of Rosa, blanched with grief, and her
beautiful eyes streaming with tears.

She went up to Cornelius, crossing her arms on her heaving breast.

“Oh, sir, sir!” she said, but sobs choked her utterance.

“My good girl,” Cornelius replied with emotion, “what do you wish? I may
tell you that my time on earth is short.”

“I come to ask a favour of you,” said Rosa, extending her arms partly
towards him and partly towards heaven.

“Don’t weep so, Rosa,” said the prisoner, “for your tears go much more
to my heart than my approaching fate, and you know, the less guilty a
prisoner is, the more it is his duty to die calmly, and even joyfully,
as he dies a martyr. Come, there’s a dear, don’t cry any more, and tell
me what you want, my pretty Rosa.”

She fell on her knees. “Forgive my father,” she said.

“Your father, your father!” said Cornelius, astonished.

“Yes, he has been so harsh to you; but it is his nature, he is so to
every one, and you are not the only one whom he has bullied.”

“He is punished, my dear Rosa, more than punished, by the accident that
has befallen him, and I forgive him.”

“I thank you, sir,” said Rosa. “And now tell me--oh, tell me--can I do
anything for you?”

“You can dry your beautiful eyes, my dear child,” answered Cornelius,
with a good-tempered smile.

“But what can I do for you,--for you I mean?”

“A man who has only one hour longer to live must be a great Sybarite
still to want anything, my dear Rosa.”

“The clergyman whom they have proposed to you?”