“I have worshipped God all my life, I have worshipped Him in His works,
and praised Him in His decrees. I am at peace with Him and do not wish
for a clergyman. The last thought which occupies my mind, however has
reference to the glory of the Almighty, and, indeed, my dear, I should
ask you to help me in carrying out this last thought.”

“Oh, Mynheer Cornelius, speak, speak!” exclaimed Rosa, still bathed in
tears.

“Give me your hand, and promise me not to laugh, my dear child.”

“Laugh,” exclaimed Rosa, frantic with grief, “laugh at this moment! do
you not see my tears?”

“Rosa, you are no stranger to me. I have not seen much of you, but that
little is enough to make me appreciate your character. I have never seen
a woman more fair or more pure than you are, and if from this moment I
take no more notice of you, forgive me; it is only because, on leaving
this world, I do not wish to have any further regret.”

Rosa felt a shudder creeping over her frame, for, whilst the prisoner
pronounced these words, the belfry clock of the Buytenhof struck eleven.

Cornelius understood her. “Yes, yes, let us make haste,” he said, “you
are right, Rosa.”

Then, taking the paper with the three suckers from his breast, where he
had again put it, since he had no longer any fear of being searched,
he said: “My dear girl, I have been very fond of flowers. That was at a
time when I did not know that there was anything else to be loved. Don’t
blush, Rosa, nor turn away; and even if I were making you a declaration
of love, alas! poor dear, it would be of no more consequence. Down there
in the yard, there is an instrument of steel, which in sixty minutes
will put an end to my boldness. Well, Rosa, I loved flowers dearly, and
I have found, or at least I believe so, the secret of the great black
tulip, which it has been considered impossible to grow, and for which,
as you know, or may not know, a prize of a hundred thousand guilders
has been offered by the Horticultural Society of Haarlem. These hundred
thousand guilders--and Heaven knows I do not regret them--these hundred
thousand guilders I have here in this paper, for they are won by the
three bulbs wrapped up in it, which you may take, Rosa, as I make you a
present of them.”

“Mynheer Cornelius!”

“Yes, yes, Rosa, you may take them; you are not wronging any one, my
child. I am alone in this world; my parents are dead; I never had a
sister or a brother. I have never had a thought of loving any one with
what is called love, and if any one has loved me, I have not known it.
However, you see well, Rosa, that I am abandoned by everybody, as
in this sad hour you alone are with me in my prison, consoling and
assisting me.”