“But, sir, a hundred thousand guilders!”

“Well, let us talk seriously, my dear child: those hundred thousand
guilders will be a nice marriage portion, with your pretty face; you
shall have them, Rosa, dear Rosa, and I ask nothing in return but your
promise that you will marry a fine young man, whom you love, and who
will love you, as dearly as I loved my flowers. Don’t interrupt me, Rosa
dear, I have only a few minutes more.”

The poor girl was nearly choking with her sobs.

Cornelius took her by the hand.

“Listen to me,” he continued: “I’ll tell you how to manage it. Go to
Dort and ask Butruysheim, my gardener, for soil from my border number
six, fill a deep box with it, and plant in it these three bulbs. They
will flower next May, that is to say, in seven months; and, when you see
the flower forming on the stem, be careful at night to protect them
from the wind, and by day to screen them from the sun. They will flower
black, I am quite sure of it. You are then to apprise the President of
the Haarlem Society. He will cause the color of the flower to be proved
before a committee and these hundred thousand guilders will be paid to
you.”

Rosa heaved a deep sigh.

“And now,” continued Cornelius,--wiping away a tear which was glistening
in his eye, and which was shed much more for that marvellous black
tulip which he was not to see than for the life which he was about to
lose,--“I have no wish left, except that the tulip should be called Rosa
Barlœnsis, that is to say, that its name should combine yours and mine;
and as, of course, you do not understand Latin, and might therefore
forget this name, try to get for me pencil and paper, that I may write
it down for you.”

Rosa sobbed afresh, and handed to him a book, bound in shagreen, which
bore the initials C. W.

“What is this?” asked the prisoner.

“Alas!” replied Rosa, “it is the Bible of your poor godfather, Cornelius
de Witt. From it he derived strength to endure the torture, and to bear
his sentence without flinching. I found it in this cell, after the death
of the martyr, and have preserved it as a relic. To-day I brought it to
you, for it seemed to me that this book must possess in itself a divine
power. Write in it what you have to write, Mynheer Cornelius; and
though, unfortunately, I am not able to read, I will take care that what
you write shall be accomplished.”

Cornelius took the Bible, and kissed it reverently.

“With what shall I write?” asked Cornelius.

“There is a pencil in the Bible,” said Rosa.

This was the pencil which John de Witt had lent to his brother, and
which he had forgotten to take away with him.