Cornelius took it, and on the second fly leaf (for it will be remembered
that the first was torn out), drawing near his end like his godfather,
he wrote with a no less firm hand:--

“On this day, the 23d of August, 1672, being on the point of rendering,
although innocent, my soul to God on the scaffold, I bequeath to Rosa
Gryphus the only worldly goods which remain to me of all that I have
possessed in this world, the rest having been confiscated; I bequeath, I
say, to Rosa Gryphus three bulbs, which I am convinced must produce,
in the next May, the Grand Black Tulip for which a prize of a hundred
thousand guilders has been offered by the Haarlem Society, requesting
that she may be paid the same sum in my stead, as my sole heiress, under
the only condition of her marrying a respectable young man of about
my age, who loves her, and whom she loves, and of her giving the black
tulip, which will constitute a new species, the name of Rosa Barlœnsis,
that is to say, hers and mine combined.

“So may God grant me mercy, and to her health and long life!

“Cornelius van Baerle.”

The prisoner then, giving the Bible to Rosa, said,--

“Read.”

“Alas!” she answered, “I have already told you I cannot read.”

Cornelius then read to Rosa the testament that he had just made.

The agony of the poor girl almost overpowered her.

“Do you accept my conditions?” asked the prisoner, with a melancholy
smile, kissing the trembling hands of the afflicted girl.

“Oh, I don’t know, sir,” she stammered.

“You don’t know, child, and why not?”

“Because there is one condition which I am afraid I cannot keep.”

“Which? I should have thought that all was settled between us.”

“You give me the hundred thousand guilders as a marriage portion, don’t
you?”

“Yes.”

“And under the condition of my marrying a man whom I love?”

“Certainly.”

“Well, then, sir, this money cannot belong to me. I shall never love any
one; neither shall I marry.”

And, after having with difficulty uttered these words, Rosa almost
swooned away in the violence of her grief.

Cornelius, frightened at seeing her so pale and sinking, was going
to take her in his arms, when a heavy step, followed by other dismal
sounds, was heard on the staircase, amidst the continued barking of the
dog.

“They are coming to fetch you. Oh God! Oh God!” cried Rosa, wringing her
hands. “And have you nothing more to tell me?”

She fell on her knees with her face buried in her hands and became
almost senseless.

“I have only to say, that I wish you to preserve these bulbs as a
most precious treasure, and carefully to treat them according to the
directions I have given you. Do it for my sake, and now farewell, Rosa.”