The piece which the mastiff had torn from his hose did not discourage
Boxtel. He came back to the charge, but this time Gryphus was in bed,
feverish, and with a broken arm. He therefore was not able to admit the
petitioner, who then addressed himself to Rosa, offering to buy her a
head-dress of pure gold if she would get the bulbs for him. On this, the
generous girl, although not yet knowing the value of the object of the
robbery, which was to be so well remunerated, had directed the tempter
to the executioner, as the heir of the prisoner.

In the meanwhile the sentence had been pronounced. Thus Isaac had no
more time to bribe any one. He therefore clung to the idea which Rosa
had suggested: he went to the executioner.

Isaac had not the least doubt that Cornelius would die with the bulbs on
his heart.

But there were two things which Boxtel did not calculate upon:--

Rosa, that is to say, love;

William of Orange, that is to say, clemency.

But for Rosa and William, the calculations of the envious neighbour
would have been correct.

But for William, Cornelius would have died.

But for Rosa, Cornelius would have died with his bulbs on his heart.

Mynheer Boxtel went to the headsman, to whom he gave himself out as
a great friend of the condemned man; and from whom he bought all the
clothes of the dead man that was to be, for one hundred guilders; rather
an exorbitant sum, as he engaged to leave all the trinkets of gold and
silver to the executioner.

But what was the sum of a hundred guilders to a man who was all but sure
to buy with it the prize of the Haarlem Society?

It was money lent at a thousand per cent., which, as nobody will deny,
was a very handsome investment.

The headsman, on the other hand, had scarcely anything to do to earn his
hundred guilders. He needed only, as soon as the execution was over, to
allow Mynheer Boxtel to ascend the scaffold with his servants, to remove
the inanimate remains of his friend.

The thing was, moreover, quite customary among the “faithful brethren,”
 when one of their masters died a public death in the yard of the
Buytenhof.

A fanatic like Cornelius might very easily have found another fanatic
who would give a hundred guilders for his remains.

The executioner also readily acquiesced in the proposal, making only one
condition,--that of being paid in advance.

Boxtel, like the people who enter a show at a fair, might be
disappointed, and refuse to pay on going out.

Boxtel paid in advance, and waited.