After this, the reader may imagine how excited Boxtel was; with what
anxiety he watched the guards, the Recorder, and the executioner; and
with what intense interest he surveyed the movements of Van Baerle. How
would he place himself on the block? how would he fall? and would he
not, in falling, crush those inestimable bulbs? had not he at least
taken care to enclose them in a golden box,--as gold is the hardest of
all metals?

Every trifling delay irritated him. Why did that stupid executioner thus
lose time in brandishing his sword over the head of Cornelius, instead
of cutting that head off?

But when he saw the Recorder take the hand of the condemned, and raise
him, whilst drawing forth the parchment from his pocket,--when he heard
the pardon of the Stadtholder publicly read out,--then Boxtel was no
more like a human being; the rage and malice of the tiger, of the hyena,
and of the serpent glistened in his eyes, and vented itself in his yell
and his movements. Had he been able to get at Van Baerle, he would have
pounced upon him and strangled him.

And so, then, Cornelius was to live, and was to go with him to
Loewestein, and thither to his prison he would take with him his bulbs;
and perhaps he would even find a garden where the black tulip would
flower for him.

Boxtel, quite overcome by his frenzy, fell from the stone upon some
Orangemen, who, like him, were sorely vexed at the turn which affairs
had taken. They, mistaking the frantic cries of Mynheer Isaac for
demonstrations of joy, began to belabour him with kicks and cuffs, such
as could not have been administered in better style by any prize-fighter
on the other side of the Channel.

Blows were, however, nothing to him. He wanted to run after the coach
which was carrying away Cornelius with his bulbs. But in his hurry
he overlooked a paving-stone in his way, stumbled, lost his centre of
gravity, rolled over to a distance of some yards, and only rose again,
bruised and begrimed, after the whole rabble of the Hague, with their
muddy feet, had passed over him.

One would think that this was enough for one day, but Mynheer Boxtel did
not seem to think so, as, in addition to having his clothes torn, his
back bruised, and his hands scratched, he inflicted upon himself the
further punishment of tearing out his hair by handfuls, as an offering
to that goddess of envy who, as mythology teaches us, wears a head-dress
of serpents.

Chapter 14. The Pigeons of Dort

It was indeed in itself a great honour for Cornelius van Baerle to be
confined in the same prison which had once received the learned master
Grotius.

But on arriving at the prison he met with an honour even greater. As
chance would have it, the cell formerly inhabited by the illustrious
Barneveldt happened to be vacant, when the clemency of the Prince of
Orange sent the tulip-fancier Van Baerle there.