The cell had a very bad character at the castle since the time when
Grotius, by means of the device of his wife, made escape from it in that
famous book-chest which the jailers forgot to examine.

On the other hand, it seemed to Van Baerle an auspicious omen that this
very cell was assigned to him, for according to his ideas, a jailer
ought never to have given to a second pigeon the cage from which the
first had so easily flown.

The cell had an historical character. We will only state here that,
with the exception of an alcove which was contrived there for the use
of Madame Grotius, it differed in no respect from the other cells of the
prison; only, perhaps, it was a little higher, and had a splendid view
from the grated window.

Cornelius felt himself perfectly indifferent as to the place where he
had to lead an existence which was little more than vegetation. There
were only two things now for which he cared, and the possession of which
was a happiness enjoyed only in imagination.

A flower, and a woman; both of them, as he conceived, lost to him for
ever.

Fortunately the good doctor was mistaken. In his prison cell the most
adventurous life which ever fell to the lot of any tulip-fancier was
reserved for him.

One morning, whilst at his window inhaling the fresh air which came from
the river, and casting a longing look to the windmills of his dear
old city Dort, which were looming in the distance behind a forest of
chimneys, he saw flocks of pigeons coming from that quarter to perch
fluttering on the pointed gables of Loewestein.

These pigeons, Van Baerle said to himself, are coming from Dort, and
consequently may return there. By fastening a little note to the wing of
one of these pigeons, one might have a chance to send a message there.
Then, after a few moments’ consideration, he exclaimed,--

“I will do it.”

A man grows very patient who is twenty-eight years of age, and condemned
to a prison for life,--that is to say, to something like twenty-two or
twenty-three thousand days of captivity.

Van Baerle, from whose thoughts the three bulbs were never absent,
made a snare for catching the pigeons, baiting the birds with all the
resources of his kitchen, such as it was for eight slivers (sixpence
English) a day; and, after a month of unsuccessful attempts, he at last
caught a female bird.

It cost him two more months to catch a male bird; he then shut them up
together, and having about the beginning of the year 1673 obtained some
eggs from them, he released the female, which, leaving the male behind
to hatch the eggs in her stead, flew joyously to Dort, with the note
under her wing.

She returned in the evening. She had preserved the note.

Thus it went on for fifteen days, at first to the disappointment, and
then to the great grief, of Van Baerle.