Let us confess it, Cornelius was not so stupefied with surprise, or
so beyond himself with joy, as he would have been but for the pigeon,
which, in answer to his letter, had brought back hope to him under her
empty wing; and, knowing Rosa, he expected, if the note had ever reached
her, to hear of her whom he loved, and also of his three darling bulbs.

He rose, listened once more, and bent forward towards the door.

Yes, they were indeed the accents which had fallen so sweetly on his
heart at the Hague.

The question now was, whether Rosa, who had made the journey from the
Hague to Loewestein, and who--Cornelius did not understand how--had
succeeded even in penetrating into the prison, would also be fortunate
enough in penetrating to the prisoner himself.

Whilst Cornelius, debating this point within himself, was building all
sorts of castles in the air, and was struggling between hope and fear,
the shutter of the grating in the door opened, and Rosa, beaming with
joy, and beautiful in her pretty national costume--but still more
beautiful from the grief which for the last five months had blanched her
cheeks--pressed her little face against the wire grating of the window,
saying to him,--

“Oh, sir, sir! here I am!”

Cornelius stretched out his arms, and, looking to heaven, uttered a cry
of joy,--

“Oh, Rosa, Rosa!”

“Hush! let us speak low: my father follows on my heels,” said the girl.

“Your father?”

“Yes, he is in the courtyard at the bottom of the staircase, receiving
the instructions of the Governor; he will presently come up.”

“The instructions of the Governor?”

“Listen to me, I’ll try to tell you all in a few words. The Stadtholder
has a country-house, one league distant from Leyden, properly speaking a
kind of large dairy, and my aunt, who was his nurse, has the management
of it. As soon as I received your letter, which, alas! I could not read
myself, but which your housekeeper read to me, I hastened to my aunt;
there I remained until the Prince should come to the dairy; and when he
came, I asked him as a favour to allow my father to exchange his post at
the prison of the Hague with the jailer of the fortress of Loewestein.
The Prince could not have suspected my object; had he known it, he would
have refused my request, but as it is he granted it.”

“And so you are here?”

“As you see.”

“And thus I shall see you every day?”

“As often as I can manage it.”

“Oh, Rosa, my beautiful Rosa, do you love me a little?”

“A little?” she said, “you make no great pretensions, Mynheer
Cornelius.”

Cornelius tenderly stretched out his hands towards her, but they were
only able to touch each other with the tips of their fingers through the
wire grating.

“Here is my father,” said she.