Rosa then abruptly drew back from the door, and ran to meet old Gryphus,
who made his appearance at the top of the staircase.

Chapter 15. The Little Grated Window

Gryphus was followed by the mastiff.

The turnkey took the animal round the jail, so that, if needs be, he
might recognize the prisoners.

“Father,” said Rosa, “here is the famous prison from which Mynheer
Grotius escaped. You know Mynheer Grotius?”

“Oh, yes, that rogue Grotius, a friend of that villain Barneveldt,
whom I saw executed when I was a child. Ah! so Grotius; and that’s the
chamber from which he escaped. Well, I’ll answer for it that no one
shall escape after him in my time.”

And thus opening the door, he began in the dark to talk to the prisoner.

The dog, on his part, went up to the prisoner, and, growling, smelled
about his legs just as though to ask him what right he had still to be
alive, after having left the prison in the company of the Recorder and
the executioner.

But the fair Rosa called him to her side.

“Well, my master,” said Gryphus, holding up his lantern to throw a
little light around, “you see in me your new jailer. I am head turnkey,
and have all the cells under my care. I am not vicious, but I’m not to
be trifled with, as far as discipline goes.”

“My good Master Gryphus, I know you perfectly well,” said the prisoner,
approaching within the circle of light cast around by the lantern.

“Halloa! that’s you, Mynheer van Baerle,” said Gryphus. “That’s you;
well, I declare, it’s astonishing how people do meet.”

“Oh, yes; and it’s really a great pleasure to me, good Master Gryphus,
to see that your arm is doing well, as you are able to hold your lantern
with it.”

Gryphus knitted his brow. “Now, that’s just it,” he said, “people always
make blunders in politics. His Highness has granted you your life; I’m
sure I should never have done so.”

“Don’t say so,” replied Cornelius; “why not?”

“Because you are the very man to conspire again. You learned people have
dealings with the devil.”

“Nonsense, Master Gryphus. Are you dissatisfied with the manner in
which I have set your arm, or with the price that I asked you?” said
Cornelius, laughing.

“On the contrary,” growled the jailer, “you have set it only too well.
There is some witchcraft in this. After six weeks, I was able to use
it as if nothing had happened, so much so, that the doctor of the
Buytenhof, who knows his trade well, wanted to break it again, to set it
in the regular way, and promised me that I should have my blessed three
months for my money before I should be able to move it.”

“And you did not want that?”

“I said, ‘Nay, as long as I can make the sign of the cross with that
arm’ (Gryphus was a Roman Catholic), ‘I laugh at the devil.’”