“Yes, but as I have given them to you, it seems to me that they belong
to you.”

“They would have belonged to me after your death, but, fortunately, you
are alive now. Oh how I blessed his Highness in my heart! If God grants
to him all the happiness that I have wished him, certainly Prince
William will be the happiest man on earth. When I looked at the Bible
of your godfather Cornelius, I was resolved to bring back to you your
bulbs, only I did not know how to accomplish it. I had, however, already
formed the plan of going to the Stadtholder, to ask from him for my
father the appointment of jailer of Loewestein, when your housekeeper
brought me your letter. Oh, how we wept together! But your letter only
confirmed me the more in my resolution. I then left for Leyden, and the
rest you know.”

“What, my dear Rosa, you thought, even before receiving my letter, of
coming to meet me again?”

“If I thought of it,” said Rosa, allowing her love to get the better of
her bashfulness, “I thought of nothing else.”

And, saying these words, Rosa looked so exceedingly pretty, that for
the second time Cornelius placed his forehead and lips against the wire
grating; of course, we must presume with the laudable desire to thank
the young lady.

Rosa, however, drew back as before.

“In truth,” she said, with that coquetry which somehow or other is in
the heart of every young girl, “I have often been sorry that I am not
able to read, but never so much so as when your housekeeper brought me
your letter. I kept the paper in my hands, which spoke to other people,
and which was dumb to poor stupid me.”

“So you have often regretted not being able to read,” said Cornelius. “I
should just like to know on what occasions.”

“Troth,” she said, laughing, “to read all the letters which were written
to me.”

“Oh, you received letters, Rosa?”

“By hundreds.”

“But who wrote to you?”

“Who! why, in the first place, all the students who passed over the
Buytenhof, all the officers who went to parade, all the clerks, and even
the merchants who saw me at my little window.”

“And what did you do with all these notes, my dear Rosa?”

“Formerly,” she answered, “I got some friend to read them to me, which
was capital fun, but since a certain time--well, what use is it to
attend to all this nonsense?--since a certain time I have burnt them.”

“Since a certain time!” exclaimed Cornelius, with a look beaming with
love and joy.

Rosa cast down her eyes, blushing. In her sweet confusion, she did
not observe the lips of Cornelius, which, alas! only met the cold
wire-grating. Yet, in spite of this obstacle, they communicated to the
lips of the young girl the glowing breath of the most tender kiss.