At this sudden outburst of tenderness, Rosa grew very pale,--perhaps
paler than she had been on the day of the execution. She uttered a
plaintive sob, closed her fine eyes, and fled, trying in vain to still
the beating of her heart.

And thus Cornelius was again alone.

Rosa had fled so precipitately, that she completely forgot to return to
Cornelius the three bulbs of the Black Tulip.

Chapter 16. Master and Pupil

The worthy Master Gryphus, as the reader may have seen, was far from
sharing the kindly feeling of his daughter for the godson of Cornelius
de Witt.

There being only five prisoners at Loewestein, the post of turnkey was
not a very onerous one, but rather a sort of sinecure, given after a
long period of service.

But the worthy jailer, in his zeal, had magnified with all the power
of his imagination the importance of his office. To him Cornelius had
swelled to the gigantic proportions of a criminal of the first order. He
looked upon him, therefore, as the most dangerous of all his prisoners.
He watched all his steps, and always spoke to him with an angry
countenance; punishing him for what he called his dreadful rebellion
against such a clement prince as the Stadtholder.

Three times a day he entered Van Baerle’s cell, expecting to find
him trespassing; but Cornelius had ceased to correspond, since his
correspondent was at hand. It is even probable that, if Cornelius had
obtained his full liberty, with permission to go wherever he liked, the
prison, with Rosa and his bulbs, would have appeared to him preferable
to any other habitation in the world without Rosa and his bulbs.

Rosa, in fact, had promised to come and see him every evening, and from
the first evening she had kept her word.

On the following evening she went up as before, with the same
mysteriousness and the same precaution. Only she had this time resolved
within herself not to approach too near the grating. In order, however,
to engage Van Baerle in a conversation from the very first which would
seriously occupy his attention, she tendered to him through the grating
the three bulbs, which were still wrapped up in the same paper.

But to the great astonishment of Rosa, Van Baerle pushed back her white
hand with the tips of his fingers.

The young man had been considering about the matter.

“Listen to me,” he said. “I think we should risk too much by embarking
our whole fortune in one ship. Only think, my dear Rosa, that the
question is to carry out an enterprise which until now has been
considered impossible, namely, that of making the great black tulip
flower. Let us, therefore, take every possible precaution, so that in
case of a failure we may not have anything to reproach ourselves with. I
will now tell you the way I have traced out for us.”