Rosa was all attention to what he would say, much more on account of the
importance which the unfortunate tulip-fancier attached to it, than that
she felt interested in the matter herself.

“I will explain to you, Rosa,” he said. “I dare say you have in this
fortress a small garden, or some courtyard, or, if not that, at least
some terrace.”

“We have a very fine garden,” said Rosa, “it runs along the edge of the
Waal, and is full of fine old trees.”

“Could you bring me some soil from the garden, that I may judge?”

“I will do so to-morrow.”

“Take some from a sunny spot, and some from a shady, so that I may judge
of its properties in a dry and in a moist state.”

“Be assured I shall.”

“After having chosen the soil, and, if it be necessary, modified it, we
will divide our three bulbs; you will take one and plant it, on the day
that I will tell you, in the soil chosen by me. It is sure to flower, if
you tend it according to my directions.”

“I will not lose sight of it for a minute.”

“You will give me another, which I will try to grow here in my cell, and
which will help me to beguile those long weary hours when I cannot see
you. I confess to you I have very little hope for the latter one, and
I look beforehand on this unfortunate bulb as sacrificed to my
selfishness. However, the sun sometimes visits me. I will, besides, try
to convert everything into an artificial help, even the heat and the
ashes of my pipe, and lastly, we, or rather you, will keep in reserve
the third sucker as our last resource, in case our first two experiments
should prove a failure. In this manner, my dear Rosa, it is impossible
that we should not succeed in gaining the hundred thousand guilders
for your marriage portion; and how dearly shall we enjoy that supreme
happiness of seeing our work brought to a successful issue!”

“I know it all now,” said Rosa. “I will bring you the soil to-morrow,
and you will choose it for your bulb and for mine. As to that in which
yours is to grow, I shall have several journeys to convey it to you, as
I cannot bring much at a time.”

“There is no hurry for it, dear Rosa; our tulips need not be put into
the ground for a month at least. So you see we have plenty of time
before us. Only I hope that, in planting your bulb, you will strictly
follow all my instructions.”

“I promise you I will.”