“And when you have once planted it, you will communicate to me all
the circumstances which may interest our nursling; such as change of
weather, footprints on the walks, or footprints in the borders. You will
listen at night whether our garden is not resorted to by cats. A couple
of those untoward animals laid waste two of my borders at Dort.”

“I will listen.”

“On moonlight nights have you ever looked at your garden, my dear
child?”

“The window of my sleeping-room overlooks it.”

“Well, on moonlight nights you will observe whether any rats come out
from the holes in the wall. The rats are most mischievous by their
gnawing everything; and I have heard unfortunate tulip-growers complain
most bitterly of Noah for having put a couple of rats in the ark.”

“I will observe, and if there are cats or rats----”

“You will apprise me of it,--that’s right. And, moreover,” Van Baerle,
having become mistrustful in his captivity, continued, “there is an
animal much more to be feared than even the cat or the rat.”

“What animal?”

“Man. You comprehend, my dear Rosa, a man may steal a guilder, and risk
the prison for such a trifle, and, consequently, it is much more likely
that some one might steal a hundred thousand guilders.”

“No one ever enters the garden but myself.”

“Thank you, thank you, my dear Rosa. All the joy of my life has still to
come from you.”

And as the lips of Van Baerle approached the grating with the same ardor
as the day before, and as, moreover, the hour for retiring had struck,
Rosa drew back her head, and stretched out her hand.

In this pretty little hand, of which the coquettish damsel was
particularly proud, was the bulb.

Cornelius kissed most tenderly the tips of her fingers. Did he do so
because the hand kept one of the bulbs of the great black tulip, or
because this hand was Rosa’s? We shall leave this point to the decision
of wiser heads than ours.

Rosa withdrew with the other two suckers, pressing them to her heart.

Did she press them to her heart because they were the bulbs of the great
black tulip, or because she had them from Cornelius?

This point, we believe, might be more readily decided than the other.

However that may have been, from that moment life became sweet, and
again full of interest to the prisoner.

Rosa, as we have seen, had returned to him one of the suckers.

Every evening she brought to him, handful by handful, a quantity of
soil from that part of the garden which he had found to be the best, and
which, indeed, was excellent.

A large jug, which Cornelius had skilfully broken, did service as a
flower-pot. He half filled it, and mixed the earth of the garden with
a small portion of dried river mud, a mixture which formed an excellent
soil.

Then, at the beginning of April, he planted his first sucker in that
jug.