“Now, let me hear, Rosa, what you have done,” said Cornelius, with as
tender an anxiety as he had lately shown to herself.

“Well,” she said, smiling, for in her own heart she could not help
studying this double love of the prisoner for herself and for the black
tulip, “I have done things on a large scale; I have prepared a bed as
you described it to me, on a clear spot, far from trees and walls, in a
soil slightly mixed with sand, rather moist than dry without a fragment
of stone or pebble.”

“Well done, Rosa, well done.”

“I am now only waiting for your further orders to put in the bulb, you
know that I must be behindhand with you, as I have in my favour all the
chances of good air, of the sun, and abundance of moisture.”

“All true, all true,” exclaimed Cornelius, clapping his hands with
joy, “you are a good pupil, Rosa, and you are sure to gain your hundred
thousand guilders.”

“Don’t forget,” said Rosa, smiling, “that your pupil, as you call me,
has still other things to learn besides the cultivation of tulips.”

“Yes, yes, and I am as anxious as you are, Rosa, that you should learn
to read.”

“When shall we begin?”

“At once.”

“No, to-morrow.”

“Why to-morrow?”

“Because to-day our hour is expired, and I must leave you.”

“Already? But what shall we read?”

“Oh,” said Rosa, “I have a book,--a book which I hope will bring us
luck.”

“To-morrow, then.”

“Yes, to-morrow.”

On the following evening Rosa returned with the Bible of Cornelius de
Witt.

Chapter 17. The First Bulb

On the following evening, as we have said, Rosa returned with the Bible
of Cornelius de Witt.

Then began between the master and the pupil one of those charming scenes
which are the delight of the novelist who has to describe them.

The grated window, the only opening through which the two lovers were
able to communicate, was too high for conveniently reading a book,
although it had been quite convenient for them to read each other’s
faces.

Rosa therefore had to press the open book against the grating edgewise,
holding above it in her right hand the lamp, but Cornelius hit upon the
lucky idea of fixing it to the bars, so as to afford her a little
rest. Rosa was then enabled to follow with her finger the letters
and syllables, which she was to spell for Cornelius, who with a straw
pointed out the letters to his attentive pupil through the holes of the
grating.

The light of the lamp illuminated the rich complexion of Rosa, her blue
liquid eyes, and her golden hair under her head-dress of gold brocade,
with her fingers held up, and showing in the blood, as it flowed
downwards in the veins that pale pink hue which shines before the light
owing to the living transparency of the flesh tint.