“Indeed,” said Cornelius to him, “you must be a very mean and spiteful
fellow to rob a poor prisoner of his only consolation, a tulip bulb.”

“For shame, my father,” Rosa chimed in, “it is indeed a crime you have
committed here.”

“Ah, is that you, my little chatter-box?” the old man cried, boiling
with rage and turning towards her; “don’t you meddle with what don’t
concern you, but go down as quickly as possible.”

“Unfortunate me,” continued Cornelius, overwhelmed with grief.

“After all, it is but a tulip,” Gryphus resumed, as he began to be a
little ashamed of himself. “You may have as many tulips as you like: I
have three hundred of them in my loft.”

“To the devil with your tulips!” cried Cornelius; “you are worthy of
each other: had I a hundred thousand millions of them, I would gladly
give them for the one which you have just destroyed.”

“Oh, so!” Gryphus said, in a tone of triumph; “now there we have it.
It was not your tulip you cared for. There was in that false bulb some
witchcraft, perhaps some means of correspondence with conspirators
against his Highness who has granted you your life. I always said they
were wrong in not cutting your head off.”

“Father, father!” cried Rosa.

“Yes, yes! it is better as it is now,” repeated Gryphus, growing warm;
“I have destroyed it, and I’ll do the same again, as often as you repeat
the trick. Didn’t I tell you, my fine fellow, that I would make your
life a hard one?”

“A curse on you!” Cornelius exclaimed, quite beyond himself with
despair, as he gathered, with his trembling fingers, the remnants of
that bulb on which he had rested so many joys and so many hopes.

“We shall plant the other to-morrow, my dear Mynheer Cornelius,”
 said Rosa, in a low voice, who understood the intense grief of the
unfortunate tulip-fancier, and who, with the pure sacred love of her
innocent heart, poured these kind words, like a drop of balm, on the
bleeding wounds of Cornelius.

Chapter 18. Rosa’s Lover

Rosa had scarcely pronounced these consolatory words when a voice was
heard from the staircase asking Gryphus how matters were going on.

“Do you hear, father?” said Rosa.

“What?”

“Master Jacob calls you, he is uneasy.”

“There was such a noise,” said Gryphus; “wouldn’t you have thought he
would murder me, this doctor? They are always very troublesome fellows,
these scholars.”

Then, pointing with his finger towards the staircase, he said to Rosa:
“Just lead the way, Miss.”

After this he locked the door and called out: “I shall be with you
directly, friend Jacob.”

Poor Cornelius, thus left alone with his bitter grief, muttered to
himself,--

“Ah, you old hangman! it is me you have trodden under foot; you have
murdered me; I shall not survive it.”

And certainly the unfortunate prisoner would have fallen ill but for the
counterpoise which Providence had granted to his grief, and which was
called Rosa.