Cornelius had remained in bed the whole day.

“Well,” said Gryphus, coming down from the last visit, “I think we shall
soon get rid of our scholar.”

Rosa was startled.

“Nonsense!” said Jacob. “What do you mean?”

“He doesn’t drink, he doesn’t eat, he doesn’t leave his bed. He will get
out of it, like Mynheer Grotius, in a chest, only the chest will be a
coffin.”

Rosa grew pale as death.

“Ah!” she said to herself, “he is uneasy about his tulip.”

And, rising with a heavy heart, she returned to her chamber, where she
took a pen and paper, and during the whole of that night busied herself
with tracing letters.

On the following morning, when Cornelius got up to drag himself to the
window, he perceived a paper which had been slipped under the door.

He pounced upon it, opened it, and read the following words, in a
handwriting which he could scarcely have recognized as that of Rosa, so
much had she improved during her short absence of seven days,--

“Be easy; your tulip is going on well.”

Although these few words of Rosa’s somewhat soothed the grief of
Cornelius, yet he felt not the less the irony which was at the bottom
of them. Rosa, then, was not ill, she was offended; she had not been
forcibly prevented from coming, but had voluntarily stayed away. Thus
Rosa, being at liberty, found in her own will the force not to come and
see him, who was dying with grief at not having seen her.

Cornelius had paper and a pencil which Rosa had brought to him. He
guessed that she expected an answer, but that she would not come before
the evening to fetch it. He therefore wrote on a piece of paper, similar
to that which he had received,--

“It was not my anxiety about the tulip that has made me ill, but the
grief at not seeing you.”

After Gryphus had made his last visit of the day, and darkness had set
in, he slipped the paper under the door, and listened with the most
intense attention, but he neither heard Rosa’s footsteps nor the
rustling of her gown.

He only heard a voice as feeble as a breath, and gentle like a caress,
which whispered through the grated little window in the door the word,--

“To-morrow!”

Now to-morrow was the eighth day. For eight days Cornelius and Rosa had
not seen each other.

Chapter 20. The Events which took place during those Eight Days

On the following evening, at the usual hour, Van Baerle heard some one
scratch at the grated little window, just as Rosa had been in the habit
of doing in the heyday of their friendship.

Cornelius being, as may easily be imagined, not far off from the door,
perceived Rosa, who at last was waiting again for him with her lamp in
her hand.

Seeing him so sad and pale, she was startled, and said,--

“You are ill, Mynheer Cornelius?”