“Yes, I am,” he answered, as indeed he was suffering in mind and in
body.

“I saw that you did not eat,” said Rosa; “my father told me that you
remained in bed all day. I then wrote to calm your uneasiness concerning
the fate of the most precious object of your anxiety.”

“And I,” said Cornelius, “I have answered. Seeing your return, my dear
Rosa, I thought you had received my letter.”

“It is true; I have received it.”

“You cannot this time excuse yourself with not being able to read.
Not only do you read very fluently, but also you have made marvellous
progress in writing.”

“Indeed, I have not only received, but also read your note. Accordingly
I am come to see whether there might not be some remedy to restore you
to health.”

“Restore me to health?” cried Cornelius; “but have you any good news to
communicate to me?”

Saying this, the poor prisoner looked at Rosa, his eyes sparkling with
hope.

Whether she did not, or would not, understand this look, Rosa answered
gravely,--

“I have only to speak to you about your tulip, which, as I well know, is
the object uppermost in your mind.”

Rosa pronounced those few words in a freezing tone, which cut deeply
into the heart of Cornelius. He did not suspect what lay hidden under
this appearance of indifference with which the poor girl affected to
speak of her rival, the black tulip.

“Oh!” muttered Cornelius, “again! again! Have I not told you, Rosa, that
I thought but of you? that it was you alone whom I regretted, you whom
I missed, you whose absence I felt more than the loss of liberty and of
life itself?”

Rosa smiled with a melancholy air.

“Ah!” she said, “your tulip has been in such danger.”

Cornelius trembled involuntarily, and showed himself clearly to be
caught in the trap, if ever the remark was meant as such.

“Danger!” he cried, quite alarmed; “what danger?”

Rosa looked at him with gentle compassion; she felt that what she wished
was beyond the power of this man, and that he must be taken as he was,
with his little foible.

“Yes,” she said, “you have guessed the truth; that suitor and amorous
swain, Jacob, did not come on my account.”

“And what did he come for?” Cornelius anxiously asked.

“He came for the sake of the tulip.”

“Alas!” said Cornelius, growing even paler at this piece of information
than he had been when Rosa, a fortnight before, had told him that Jacob
was coming for her sake.

Rosa saw this alarm, and Cornelius guessed, from the expression of her
face, in what direction her thoughts were running.

“Oh, pardon me, Rosa!” he said, “I know you, and I am well aware of the
kindness and sincerity of your heart. To you God has given the thought
and strength for defending yourself; but to my poor tulip, when it is in
danger, God has given nothing of the sort.”