“He waited for a moment, very likely to make sure of my not coming back,
after which he sneaked forth from his hiding-place, and approached the
border by a long round-about; at last, having reached his goal, that is
to say, the spot where the ground was newly turned, he stopped with a
careless air, looking about in all directions, and scanning every corner
of the garden, every window of the neighbouring houses, and even the
sky; after which, thinking himself quite alone, quite isolated, and out
of everybody’s sight, he pounced upon the border, plunged both his
hands into the soft soil, took a handful of the mould, which he gently
frittered between his fingers to see whether the bulb was in it, and
repeated the same thing twice or three times, until at last he perceived
that he was outwitted. Then, keeping down the agitation which was raging
in his breast, he took up the rake, smoothed the ground, so as to leave
it on his retiring in the same state as he had found it, and, quite
abashed and rueful, walked back to the door, affecting the unconcerned
air of an ordinary visitor of the garden.”

“Oh, the wretch!” muttered Cornelius, wiping the cold sweat from his
brow. “Oh, the wretch! I guessed his intentions. But the bulb, Rosa;
what have you done with it? It is already rather late to plant it.”

“The bulb? It has been in the ground for these six days.”

“Where? and how?” cried Cornelius. “Good Heaven, what imprudence! What
is it? In what sort of soil is it? In what aspect? Good or bad? Is there
no risk of having it filched by that detestable Jacob?”

“There is no danger of its being stolen,” said Rosa, “unless Jacob will
force the door of my chamber.”

“Oh! then it is with you in your bedroom?” said Cornelius, somewhat
relieved. “But in what soil? in what vessel? You don’t let it grow, I
hope, in water like those good ladies of Haarlem and Dort, who imagine
that water could replace the earth?”

“You may make yourself comfortable on that score,” said Rosa, smiling;
“your bulb is not growing in water.”

“I breathe again.”

“It is in a good, sound stone pot, just about the size of the jug in
which you had planted yours. The soil is composed of three parts of
common mould, taken from the best spot of the garden, and one of the
sweepings of the road. I have heard you and that detestable Jacob,
as you call him, so often talk about what is the soil best fitted
for growing tulips, that I know it as well as the first gardener of
Haarlem.”

“And now what is the aspect, Rosa?”