“At present it has the sun all day long,--that is to say when the sun
shines. But when it once peeps out of the ground, I shall do as you have
done here, dear Mynheer Cornelius: I shall put it out of my window on
the eastern side from eight in the morning until eleven and in my window
towards the west from three to five in the afternoon.”

“That’s it! that’s it!” cried Cornelius; “and you are a perfect
gardener, my pretty Rosa. But I am afraid the nursing of my tulip will
take up all your time.”

“Yes, it will,” said Rosa; “but never mind. Your tulip is my daughter.
I shall devote to it the same time as I should to a child of mine, if I
were a mother. Only by becoming its mother,” Rosa added, smilingly, “can
I cease to be its rival.”

“My kind and pretty Rosa!” muttered Cornelius casting on her a glance in
which there was much more of the lover than of the gardener, and which
afforded Rosa some consolation.

Then, after a silence of some moments, during which Cornelius had
grasped through the openings of the grating for the receding hand of
Rosa, he said,--

“Do you mean to say that the bulb has now been in the ground for six
days?”

“Yes, six days, Mynheer Cornelius,” she answered.

“And it does not yet show leaf?”

“No, but I think it will to-morrow.”

“Well, then, to-morrow you will bring me news about it, and about
yourself, won’t you, Rosa? I care very much for the daughter, as you
called it just now, but I care even much more for the mother.”

“To-morrow?” said Rosa, looking at Cornelius askance. “I don’t know
whether I shall be able to come to-morrow.”

“Good heavens!” said Cornelius, “why can’t you come to-morrow?”

“Mynheer Cornelius, I have lots of things to do.”

“And I have only one,” muttered Cornelius.

“Yes,” said Rosa, “to love your tulip.”

“To love you, Rosa.”

Rosa shook her head, after which followed a pause.

“Well,”--Cornelius at last broke the silence,--“well, Rosa, everything
changes in the realm of nature; the flowers of spring are succeeded by
other flowers; and the bees, which so tenderly caressed the violets
and the wall-flowers, will flutter with just as much love about the
honey-suckles, the rose, the jessamine, and the carnation.”

“What does all this mean?” asked Rosa.

“You have abandoned me, Miss Rosa, to seek your pleasure elsewhere.
You have done well, and I will not complain. What claim have I to your
fidelity?”

“My fidelity!” Rosa exclaimed, with her eyes full of tears, and without
caring any longer to hide from Cornelius this dew of pearls dropping on
her cheeks, “my fidelity! have I not been faithful to you?”

“Do you call it faithful to desert me, and to leave me here to die?”

“But, Mynheer Cornelius,” said Rosa, “am I not doing everything for you
that could give you pleasure? have I not devoted myself to your tulip?”