“You are bitter, Rosa, you reproach me with the only unalloyed pleasure
which I have had in this world.”

“I reproach you with nothing, Mynheer Cornelius, except, perhaps,
with the intense grief which I felt when people came to tell me at the
Buytenhof that you were about to be put to death.”

“You are displeased, Rosa, my sweet girl, with my loving flowers.”

“I am not displeased with your loving them, Mynheer Cornelius, only it
makes me sad to think that you love them better than you do me.”

“Oh, my dear, dear Rosa! look how my hands tremble; look at my pale
cheek, hear how my heart beats. It is for you, my love, not for
the black tulip. Destroy the bulb, destroy the germ of that flower,
extinguish the gentle light of that innocent and delightful dream, to
which I have accustomed myself; but love me, Rosa, love me; for I feel
deeply that I love but you.”

“Yes, after the black tulip,” sighed Rosa, who at last no longer
coyly withdrew her warm hands from the grating, as Cornelius most
affectionately kissed them.

“Above and before everything in this world, Rosa.”

“May I believe you?”

“As you believe in your own existence.”

“Well, then, be it so; but loving me does not bind you too much.”

“Unfortunately, it does not bind me more than I am bound; but it binds
you, Rosa, you.”

“To what?”

“First of all, not to marry.”

She smiled.

“That’s your way,” she said; “you are tyrants all of you. You worship a
certain beauty, you think of nothing but her. Then you are condemned to
death, and whilst walking to the scaffold, you devote to her your last
sigh; and now you expect poor me to sacrifice to you all my dreams and
my happiness.”

“But who is the beauty you are talking of, Rosa?” said Cornelius, trying
in vain to remember a woman to whom Rosa might possibly be alluding.

“The dark beauty with a slender waist, small feet, and a noble head; in
short, I am speaking of your flower.”

Cornelius smiled.

“That is an imaginary lady love, at all events; whereas, without
counting that amorous Jacob, you by your own account are surrounded with
all sorts of swains eager to make love to you. Do you remember Rosa,
what you told me of the students, officers, and clerks of the Hague? Are
there no clerks, officers, or students at Loewestein?”

“Indeed there are, and lots of them.”

“Who write letters?”

“They do write.”

“And now, as you know how to read----”

Here Cornelius heaved a sigh at the thought, that, poor captive as he
was, to him alone Rosa owed the faculty of reading the love-letters
which she received.

“As to that,” said Rosa, “I think that in reading the notes addressed to
me, and passing the different swains in review who send them to me, I am
only following your instructions.”

“How so? My instructions?”