It is true that he did so in order that she might watch over his black
tulip.

Chapter 22. The Opening of the Flower

The night passed away very sweetly for Cornelius, although in great
agitation. Every instant he fancied he heard the gentle voice of Rosa
calling him. He then started up, went to the door, and looked through
the grating, but no one was behind it, and the lobby was empty.

Rosa, no doubt, would be watching too, but, happier than he, she watched
over the tulip; she had before her eyes that noble flower, that wonder
of wonders, which not only was unknown, but was not even thought
possible until then.

What would the world say when it heard that the black tulip was found,
that it existed and that it was the prisoner Van Baerle who had found
it?

How Cornelius would have spurned the offer of his liberty in exchange
for his tulip!

Day came, without any news; the tulip was not yet in flower.

The day passed as the night. Night came, and with it Rosa, joyous and
cheerful as a bird.

“Well?” asked Cornelius.

“Well, all is going on prosperously. This night, without any doubt, our
tulip will be in flower.”

“And will it flower black?”

“Black as jet.”

“Without a speck of any other colour.”

“Without one speck.”

“Good Heavens! my dear Rosa, I have been dreaming all night, in the
first place of you,” (Rosa made a sign of incredulity,) “and then of
what we must do.”

“Well?”

“Well, and I will tell you now what I have decided on. The tulip once
being in flower, and it being quite certain that it is perfectly black,
you must find a messenger.”

“If it is no more than that, I have a messenger quite ready.”

“Is he safe?”

“One for whom I will answer,--he is one of my lovers.”

“I hope not Jacob.”

“No, be quiet, it is the ferryman of Loewestein, a smart young man of
twenty-five.”

“By Jove!”

“Be quiet,” said Rosa, smiling, “he is still under age, as you have
yourself fixed it from twenty-six to twenty-eight.”

“In fine, do you think you may rely on this young man?”

“As on myself; he would throw himself into the Waal or the Meuse if I
bade him.”

“Well, Rosa, this lad may be at Haarlem in ten hours; you will give me
paper and pencil, and, perhaps better still, pen and ink, and I will
write, or rather, on second thoughts, you will, for if I did, being a
poor prisoner, people might, like your father, see a conspiracy in it.
You will write to the President of the Horticultural Society, and I am
sure he will come.”

“But if he tarries?”