“Well, let us suppose that he tarries one day, or even two; but it is
impossible. A tulip-fancier like him will not tarry one hour, not one
minute, not one second, to set out to see the eighth wonder of the
world. But, as I said, if he tarried one or even two days, the tulip
will still be in its full splendour. The flower once being seen by the
President, and the protocol being drawn up, all is in order; you will
only keep a duplicate of the protocol, and intrust the tulip to him.
Ah! if we had been able to carry it ourselves, Rosa, it would never have
left my hands but to pass into yours; but this is a dream, which we must
not entertain,” continued Cornelius with a sigh, “the eyes of strangers
will see it flower to the last. And above all, Rosa, before the
President has seen it, let it not be seen by any one. Alas! if any one
saw the black tulip, it would be stolen.”

“Oh!”

“Did you not tell me yourself of what you apprehended from your lover
Jacob? People will steal one guilder, why not a hundred thousand?”

“I shall watch; be quiet.”

“But if it opened whilst you were here?”

“The whimsical little thing would indeed be quite capable of playing
such a trick,” said Rosa.

“And if on your return you find it open?”

“Well?”

“Oh, Rosa, whenever it opens, remember that not a moment must be lost in
apprising the President.”

“And in apprising you. Yes, I understand.”

Rosa sighed, yet without any bitter feeling, but rather like a woman who
begins to understand a foible, and to accustom herself to it.

“I return to your tulip, Mynheer van Baerle, and as soon as it opens
I will give you news, which being done the messenger will set out
immediately.”

“Rosa, Rosa, I don’t know to what wonder under the sun I shall compare
you.”

“Compare me to the black tulip, and I promise you I shall feel very much
flattered. Good night, then, till we meet again, Mynheer Cornelius.”

“Oh, say ‘Good night, my friend.’”

“Good night, my friend,” said Rosa, a little consoled.

“Say, ‘My very dear friend.’”

“Oh, my friend--”

“Very dear friend, I entreat you, say ‘very dear,’ Rosa, very dear.”

“Very dear, yes, very dear,” said Rosa, with a beating heart, beyond
herself with happiness.

“And now that you have said ‘very dear,’ dear Rosa, say also ‘most
happy’: say ‘happier and more blessed than ever man was under the sun.’
I only lack one thing, Rosa.”

“And that is?”

“Your cheek,--your fresh cheek, your soft, rosy cheek. Oh, Rosa, give it
me of your own free will, and not by chance. Ah!”

The prisoner’s prayer ended in a sigh of ecstasy; his lips met those of
the maiden,--not by chance, nor by stratagem, but as Saint-Preux’s was
to meet the lips of Julie a hundred years later.

Rosa made her escape.