Cornelius stood with his heart upon his lips, and his face glued to the
wicket in the door.

He was fairly choking with happiness and joy. He opened his window, and
gazed long, with swelling heart, at the cloudless vault of heaven, and
the moon, which shone like silver upon the two-fold stream flowing from
far beyond the hills. He filled his lungs with the pure, sweet air,
while his brain dwelt upon thoughts of happiness, and his heart
overflowed with gratitude and religious fervour.

“Oh Thou art always watching from on high, my God,” he cried, half
prostrate, his glowing eyes fixed upon the stars: “forgive me that I
almost doubted Thy existence during these latter days, for Thou didst
hide Thy face behind the clouds, and wert for a moment lost to my sight,
O Thou merciful God, Thou pitying Father everlasting! But to-day, this
evening, and to-night, again I see Thee in all Thy wondrous glory in the
mirror of Thy heavenly abode, and more clearly still in the mirror of my
grateful heart.”

He was well again, the poor invalid; the wretched captive was free once
more.

During part of the night Cornelius, with his heart full of joy and
delight, remained at his window, gazing at the stars, and listening for
every sound.

Then casting a glance from time to time towards the lobby,--

“Down there,” he said, “is Rosa, watching like myself, and waiting
from minute to minute; down there, under Rosa’s eyes, is the mysterious
flower, which lives, which expands, which opens, perhaps Rosa holds in
this moment the stem of the tulip between her delicate fingers. Touch it
gently, Rosa. Perhaps she touches with her lips its expanding chalice.
Touch it cautiously, Rosa, your lips are burning. Yes, perhaps at this
moment the two objects of my dearest love caress each other under the
eye of Heaven.”

At this moment, a star blazed in the southern sky, and shot through the
whole horizon, falling down, as it were, on the fortress of Loewestein.

Cornelius felt a thrill run through his frame.

“Ah!” he said, “here is Heaven sending a soul to my flower.”

And as if he had guessed correctly, nearly at that very moment the
prisoner heard in the lobby a step light as that of a sylph, and the
rustling of a gown, and a well-known voice, which said to him,--

“Cornelius, my friend, my very dear friend, and very happy friend, come,
come quickly.”

Cornelius darted with one spring from the window to the door, his lips
met those of Rosa, who told him, with a kiss,--

“It is open, it is black, here it is.”

“How! here it is?” exclaimed Cornelius.

“Yes, yes, we ought indeed to run some little risk to give a great joy;
here it is, take it.”

And with one hand she raised to the level of the grating a dark lantern,
which she had lit in the meanwhile, whilst with the other she held to
the same height the miraculous tulip.