And at last he hired, just opposite Rosa’s window, a little attic,
distant enough not to allow him to be recognized with the naked eye,
but sufficiently near to enable him, with the help of his telescope,
to watch everything that was going on at the Loewestein in Rosa’s room,
just as at Dort he had watched the dry-room of Cornelius.

He had not been installed more than three days in his attic before all
his doubts were removed.

From morning to sunset the flower-pot was in the window, and, like those
charming female figures of Mieris and Metzys, Rosa appeared at that
window as in a frame, formed by the first budding sprays of the wild
vine and the honeysuckle encircling her window.

Rosa watched the flower-pot with an interest which betrayed to Boxtel
the real value of the object enclosed in it.

This object could not be anything else but the second bulb, that is to
say, the quintessence of all the hopes of the prisoner.

When the nights threatened to be too cold, Rosa took in the flower-pot.

Well, it was then quite evident she was following the instructions of
Cornelius, who was afraid of the bulb being killed by frost.

When the sun became too hot, Rosa likewise took in the pot from eleven
in the morning until two in the afternoon.

Another proof: Cornelius was afraid lest the soil should become too dry.

But when the first leaves peeped out of the earth Boxtel was fully
convinced; and his telescope left him no longer in any uncertainty
before they had grown one inch in height.

Cornelius possessed two bulbs, and the second was intrusted to the love
and care of Rosa.

For it may well be imagined that the tender secret of the two lovers had
not escaped the prying curiosity of Boxtel.

The question, therefore, was how to wrest the second bulb from the care
of Rosa.

Certainly this was no easy task.

Rosa watched over her tulip as a mother over her child, or a dove over
her eggs.

Rosa never left her room during the day, and, more than that, strange to
say, she never left it in the evening.

For seven days Boxtel in vain watched Rosa; she was always at her post.

This happened during those seven days which made Cornelius so unhappy,
depriving him at the same time of all news of Rosa and of his tulip.

Would the coolness between Rosa and Cornelius last for ever?

This would have made the theft much more difficult than Mynheer Isaac
had at first expected.