And in that hand, it must be understood, he held the false key which
opened Rosa’s door as easily as did the real one.

And this is why, in the beginning of the chapter, we said that the poor
young people were in great need of the protection of God.

Chapter 24. The Black Tulip changes Masters

Cornelius remained standing on the spot where Rosa had left him. He was
quite overpowered with the weight of his twofold happiness.

Half an hour passed away. Already did the first rays of the sun enter
through the iron grating of the prison, when Cornelius was suddenly
startled at the noise of steps which came up the staircase, and of cries
which approached nearer and nearer.

Almost at the same instant he saw before him the pale and distracted
face of Rosa.

He started, and turned pale with fright.

“Cornelius, Cornelius!” she screamed, gasping for breath.

“Good Heaven! what is it?” asked the prisoner.

“Cornelius! the tulip----”

“Well?”

“How shall I tell you?”

“Speak, speak, Rosa!”

“Some one has taken--stolen it from us.”

“Stolen--taken?” said Cornelius.

“Yes,” said Rosa, leaning against the door to support herself; “yes,
taken, stolen!”

And saying this, she felt her limbs failing her, and she fell on her
knees.

“But how? Tell me, explain to me.”

“Oh, it is not my fault, my friend.”

Poor Rosa! she no longer dared to call him “My beloved one.”

“You have then left it alone,” said Cornelius, ruefully.

“One minute only, to instruct our messenger, who lives scarcely fifty
yards off, on the banks of the Waal.”

“And during that time, notwithstanding all my injunctions, you left the
key behind, unfortunate child!”

“No, no, no! this is what I cannot understand. The key was never out of
my hands; I clinched it as if I were afraid it would take wings.”

“But how did it happen, then?”

“That’s what I cannot make out. I had given the letter to my messenger;
he started before I left his house; I came home, and my door was locked,
everything in my room was as I had left it, except the tulip,--that was
gone. Some one must have had a key for my room, or have got a false one
made on purpose.”

She was nearly choking with sobs, and was unable to continue.

Cornelius, immovable and full of consternation, heard almost without
understanding, and only muttered,--

“Stolen, stolen, and I am lost!”

“O Cornelius, forgive me, forgive me, it will kill me!”

Seeing Rosa’s distress, Cornelius seized the iron bars of the grating,
and furiously shaking them, called out,--

“Rosa, Rosa, we have been robbed, it is true, but shall we allow
ourselves to be dejected for all that? No, no; the misfortune is great,
but it may perhaps be remedied. Rosa, we know the thief!”

“Alas! what can I say about it?”