“But I say that it is no one else but that infamous Jacob. Shall we
allow him to carry to Haarlem the fruit of our labour, the fruit of our
sleepless nights, the child of our love? Rosa, we must pursue, we must
overtake him!”

“But how can we do all this, my friend, without letting my father know
we were in communication with each other? How should I, a poor girl,
with so little knowledge of the world and its ways, be able to attain
this end, which perhaps you could not attain yourself?”

“Rosa, Rosa, open this door to me, and you will see whether I will not
find the thief,--whether I will not make him confess his crime and beg
for mercy.”

“Alas!” cried Rosa, sobbing, “can I open the door for you? have I the
keys? If I had had them, would not you have been free long ago?”

“Your father has them,--your wicked father, who has already crushed the
first bulb of my tulip. Oh, the wretch! he is an accomplice of Jacob!”

“Don’t speak so loud, for Heaven’s sake!”

“Oh, Rosa, if you don’t open the door to me,” Cornelius cried in his
rage, “I shall force these bars, and kill everything I find in the
prison.”

“Be merciful, be merciful, my friend!”

“I tell you, Rosa, that I shall demolish this prison, stone for stone!”
 and the unfortunate man, whose strength was increased tenfold by his
rage, began to shake the door with a great noise, little heeding that
the thunder of his voice was re-echoing through the spiral staircase.

Rosa, in her fright, made vain attempts to check this furious outbreak.

“I tell you that I shall kill that infamous Gryphus?” roared Cornelius.
“I tell you I shall shed his blood as he did that of my black tulip.”

The wretched prisoner began really to rave.

“Well, then, yes,” said Rosa, all in a tremble. “Yes, yes, only be
quiet. Yes, yes, I will take his keys, I will open the door for you!
Yes, only be quiet, my own dear Cornelius.”

She did not finish her speech, as a growl by her side interrupted her.

“My father!” cried Rosa.

“Gryphus!” roared Van Baerle. “Oh, you villain!”

Old Gryphus, in the midst of all the noise, had ascended the staircase
without being heard.

He rudely seized his daughter by the wrist.

“So you will take my keys?” he said, in a voice choked with rage. “Ah!
this dastardly fellow, this monster, this gallows-bird of a conspirator,
is your own dear Cornelius, is he? Ah! Missy has communications with
prisoners of state. Ah! won’t I teach you--won’t I?”

Rosa clasped her hands in despair.