“Ah!” Gryphus continued, passing from the madness of anger to the cool
irony of a man who has got the better of his enemy,--“Ah, you innocent
tulip-fancier, you gentle scholar; you will kill me, and drink my blood!
Very well! very well! And you have my daughter for an accomplice. Am
I, forsooth, in a den of thieves,--in a cave of brigands? Yes, but the
Governor shall know all to-morrow, and his Highness the Stadtholder
the day after. We know the law,--we shall give a second edition of the
Buytenhof, Master Scholar, and a good one this time. Yes, yes, just gnaw
your paws like a bear in his cage, and you, my fine little lady, devour
your dear Cornelius with your eyes. I tell you, my lambkins, you shall
not much longer have the felicity of conspiring together. Away with you,
unnatural daughter! And as to you, Master Scholar, we shall see each
other again. Just be quiet,--we shall.”

Rosa, beyond herself with terror and despair, kissed her hands to her
friend; then, suddenly struck with a bright thought, she rushed toward
the staircase, saying,--

“All is not yet lost, Cornelius. Rely on me, my Cornelius.”

Her father followed her, growling.

As to poor Cornelius, he gradually loosened his hold of the bars, which
his fingers still grasped convulsively. His head was heavy, his eyes
almost started from their sockets, and he fell heavily on the floor of
his cell, muttering,--

“Stolen! it has been stolen from me!”

During this time Boxtel had left the fortress by the door which Rosa
herself had opened. He carried the black tulip wrapped up in a cloak,
and, throwing himself into a coach, which was waiting for him at Gorcum,
he drove off, without, as may well be imagined, having informed his
friend Gryphus of his sudden departure.

And now, as we have seen him enter his coach, we shall with the consent
of the reader, follow him to the end of his journey.

He proceeded but slowly, as the black tulip could not bear travelling
post-haste.

But Boxtel, fearing that he might not arrive early enough, procured at
Delft a box, lined all round with fresh moss, in which he packed the
tulip. The flower was so lightly pressed upon all sides, with a supply
of air from above, that the coach could now travel full speed without
any possibility of injury to the tulip.

He arrived next morning at Haarlem, fatigued but triumphant; and, to
do away with every trace of the theft, he transplanted the tulip, and,
breaking the original flower-pot, threw the pieces into the canal. After
which he wrote the President of the Horticultural Society a letter, in
which he announced to him that he had just arrived at Haarlem with
a perfectly black tulip; and, with his flower all safe, took up his
quarters at a good hotel in the town, and there he waited.

Chapter 25. The President van Systens