Rosa, on leaving Cornelius, had fixed on her plan, which was no other
than to restore to Cornelius the stolen tulip, or never to see him
again.

She had seen the despair of the prisoner, and she knew that it was
derived from a double source, and that it was incurable.

On the one hand, separation became inevitable,--Gryphus having at
the same time surprised the secret of their love and of their secret
meetings.

On the other hand, all the hopes on the fulfilment of which Cornelius
van Baerle had rested his ambition for the last seven years were now
crushed.

Rosa was one of those women who are dejected by trifles, but who in
great emergencies are supplied by the misfortune itself with the energy
for combating or with the resources for remedying it.

She went to her room, and cast a last glance about her to see whether
she had not been mistaken, and whether the tulip was not stowed away in
some corner where it had escaped her notice. But she sought in vain, the
tulip was still missing; the tulip was indeed stolen.

Rosa made up a little parcel of things indispensable for a journey; took
her three hundred guilders,--that is to say, all her fortune,--fetched
the third bulb from among her lace, where she had laid it up, and
carefully hid it in her bosom; after which she locked her door twice to
disguise her flight as long as possible, and, leaving the prison by
the same door which an hour before had let out Boxtel, she went to a
stable-keeper to hire a carriage.

The man had only a two-wheel chaise, and this was the vehicle which
Boxtel had hired since last evening, and in which he was now driving
along the road to Delft; for the road from Loewestein to Haarlem, owing
to the many canals, rivers, and rivulets intersecting the country, is
exceedingly circuitous.

Not being able to procure a vehicle, Rosa was obliged to take a horse,
with which the stable-keeper readily intrusted her, knowing her to be
the daughter of the jailer of the fortress.

Rosa hoped to overtake her messenger, a kind-hearted and honest lad,
whom she would take with her, and who might at the same time serve her
as a guide and a protector.

And in fact she had not proceeded more than a league before she saw
him hastening along one of the side paths of a very pretty road by the
river. Setting her horse off at a canter, she soon came up with him.

The honest lad was not aware of the important character of his message;
nevertheless, he used as much speed as if he had known it; and in less
than an hour he had already gone a league and a half.