The damsel, meanwhile, after having stopped for two hours at Rotterdam,
had started again on her journey. On that evening she slept at Delft,
and on the following morning she reached Haarlem, four hours after
Boxtel had arrived there.

Rosa, first of all, caused herself to be led before Mynheer van Systens,
the President of the Horticultural Society of Haarlem.

She found that worthy gentleman in a situation which, to do justice to
our story, we must not pass over in our description.

The President was drawing up a report to the committee of the society.

This report was written on large-sized paper, in the finest handwriting
of the President.

Rosa was announced simply as Rosa Gryphus; but as her name, well as it
might sound, was unknown to the President, she was refused admittance.

Rosa, however, was by no means abashed, having vowed in her heart,
in pursuing her cause, not to allow herself to be put down either by
refusal, or abuse, or even brutality.

“Announce to the President,” she said to the servant, “that I want to
speak to him about the black tulip.”

These words seemed to be an “Open Sesame,” for she soon found herself
in the office of the President, Van Systens, who gallantly rose from his
chair to meet her.

He was a spare little man, resembling the stem of a flower, his head
forming its chalice, and his two limp arms representing the double leaf
of the tulip; the resemblance was rendered complete by his waddling gait
which made him even more like that flower when it bends under a breeze.

“Well, miss,” he said, “you are coming, I am told, about the affair of
the black tulip.”

To the President of the Horticultural Society the Tulipa nigra was a
first-rate power, which, in its character as queen of the tulips, might
send ambassadors.

“Yes, sir,” answered Rosa; “I come at least to speak of it.”

“Is it doing well, then?” asked Van Systens, with a smile of tender
veneration.

“Alas! sir, I don’t know,” said Rosa.

“How is that? could any misfortune have happened to it?”

“A very great one, sir; yet not to it, but to me.”

“What?”

“It has been stolen from me.”

“Stolen! the black tulip?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Do you know the thief?”

“I have my suspicions, but I must not yet accuse any one.”

“But the matter may very easily be ascertained.”

“How is that?”

“As it has been stolen from you, the thief cannot be far off.”

“Why not?”

“Because I have seen the black tulip only two hours ago.”

“You have seen the black tulip!” cried Rosa, rushing up to Mynheer van
Systens.

“As I see you, miss.”

“But where?”

“Well, with your master, of course.”

“With my master?”

“Yes, are you not in the service of Master Isaac Boxtel?”

“I?”

“Yes, you.”

“But for whom do you take me, sir?”

“And for whom do you take me?”