“Monseigneur,” he called out, “Monseigneur! What distinguished honour is
your Highness bestowing for ever on my humble house by your visit?”

“Dear Mynheer van Systens,” said William of Orange, with a serenity
which, with him, took the place of a smile, “I am a true Hollander, I
am fond of the water, of beer, and of flowers, sometimes even of that
cheese the flavour of which seems so grateful to the French; the flower
which I prefer to all others is, of course, the tulip. I heard at Leyden
that the city of Haarlem at last possessed the black tulip; and, after
having satisfied myself of the truth of news which seemed so incredible,
I have come to know all about it from the President of the Horticultural
Society.”

“Oh, Monseigneur, Monseigneur!” said Van Systens, “what glory to the
society if its endeavours are pleasing to your Highness!”

“Have you got the flower here?” said the Prince, who, very likely,
already regretted having made such a long speech.

“I am sorry to say we have not.”

“And where is it?”

“With its owner.”

“Who is he?”

“An honest tulip-grower of Dort.”

“His name?”

“Boxtel.”

“His quarters?”

“At the White Swan; I shall send for him, and if in the meanwhile your
Highness will do me the honour of stepping into my drawing-room, he will
be sure--knowing that your Highness is here--to lose no time in bringing
his tulip.”

“Very well, send for him.”

“Yes, your Highness, but----”

“What is it?”

“Oh, nothing of any consequence, Monseigneur.”

“Everything is of consequence, Mynheer van Systens.”

“Well, then, Monseigneur, if it must be said, a little difficulty has
presented itself.”

“What difficulty?”

“This tulip has already been claimed by usurpers. It’s true that it is
worth a hundred thousand guilders.”

“Indeed!”

“Yes, Monseigneur, by usurpers, by forgers.”

“This is a crime, Mynheer van Systens.”

“So it is, your Highness.”

“And have you any proofs of their guilt?”

“No, Monseigneur, the guilty woman----”

“The guilty woman, Sir?”

“I ought to say, the woman who claims the tulip, Monseigneur, is here in
the room close by.”

“And what do you think of her?”

“I think, Monseigneur, that the bait of a hundred thousand guilders may
have tempted her.”

“And so she claims the tulip?”

“Yes Monseigneur.”

“And what proof does she offer?”

“I was just going to question her when your Highness came in.”

“Question her, Mynheer van Systens, question her. I am the first
magistrate of the country; I will hear the case and administer justice.”

“I have found my King Solomon,” said Van Systens, bowing, and showing
the way to the Prince.

His Highness was just going to walk ahead, but, suddenly recollecting
himself he said--

“Go before me, and call me plain Mynheer.”

The two then entered the cabinet.

Rosa was still standing at the same place, leaning on the window, and
looking through the panes into the garden.

“Ah! a Frisian girl,” said the Prince, as he observed Rosa’s gold
brocade headdress and red petticoat.