At the noise of their footsteps she turned round, but scarcely saw the
Prince, who seated himself in the darkest corner of the apartment.

All her attention, as may be easily imagined, was fixed on that
important person who was called Van Systens, so that she had no time to
notice the humble stranger who was following the master of the house,
and who, for aught she knew, might be somebody or nobody.

The humble stranger took a book down from the shelf, and made Van
Systens a sign to commence the examination forthwith.

Van Systens, likewise at the invitation of the young man in the violet
coat, sat down in his turn, and, quite happy and proud of the importance
thus cast upon him, began,--

“My child, you promise to tell me the truth and the entire truth
concerning this tulip?”

“I promise.”

“Well, then, speak before this gentleman; this gentleman is one of the
members of the Horticultural Society.”

“What am I to tell you, sir,” said Rosa, “beside that which I have told
you already.”

“Well, then, what is it?”

“I repeat the question I have addressed to you before.”

“Which?”

“That you will order Mynheer Boxtel to come here with his tulip. If I do
not recognise it as mine I will frankly tell it; but if I do recognise
it I will reclaim it, even if I go before his Highness the Stadtholder
himself, with my proofs in my hands.”

“You have, then, some proofs, my child?”

“God, who knows my good right, will assist me to some.”

Van Systens exchanged a look with the Prince, who, since the first words
of Rosa, seemed to try to remember her, as if it were not for the first
time that this sweet voice rang in his ears.

An officer went off to fetch Boxtel, and Van Systens in the meanwhile
continued his examination.

“And with what do you support your assertion that you are the real owner
of the black tulip?”

“With the very simple fact of my having planted and grown it in my own
chamber.”

“In your chamber? Where was your chamber?”

“At Loewestein.”

“You are from Loewestein?”

“I am the daughter of the jailer of the fortress.”

The Prince made a little movement, as much as to say, “Well, that’s it,
I remember now.”

And, all the while feigning to be engaged with his book, he watched Rosa
with even more attention than he had before.

“And you are fond of flowers?” continued Mynheer van Systens.

“Yes, sir.”

“Then you are an experienced florist, I dare say?”

Rosa hesitated a moment; then with a tone which came from the depth of
her heart, she said,--

“Gentlemen, I am speaking to men of honor.”

There was such an expression of truth in the tone of her voice, that
Van Systens and the Prince answered simultaneously by an affirmative
movement of their heads.