“Well, then, I am not an experienced florist; I am only a poor girl, one
of the people, who, three months ago, knew neither how to read nor how
to write. No, the black tulip has not been found by myself.”

“But by whom else?”

“By a poor prisoner of Loewestein.”

“By a prisoner of Loewestein?” repeated the Prince.

The tone of his voice startled Rosa, who was sure she had heard it
before.

“By a prisoner of state, then,” continued the Prince, “as there are none
else there.”

Having said this he began to read again, at least in appearance.

“Yes,” said Rosa, with a faltering voice, “yes, by a prisoner of state.”

Van Systens trembled as he heard such a confession made in the presence
of such a witness.

“Continue,” said William dryly, to the President of the Horticultural
Society.

“Ah, sir,” said Rosa, addressing the person whom she thought to be her
real judge, “I am going to incriminate myself very seriously.”

“Certainly,” said Van Systens, “the prisoner of state ought to be kept
in close confinement at Loewestein.”

“Alas! sir.”

“And from what you tell me you took advantage of your position, as
daughter of the jailer, to communicate with a prisoner of state about
the cultivation of flowers.”

“So it is, sir,” Rosa murmured in dismay; “yes, I am bound to confess, I
saw him every day.”

“Unfortunate girl!” exclaimed Van Systens.

The Prince, observing the fright of Rosa and the pallor of the
President, raised his head, and said, in his clear and decided tone,--

“This cannot signify anything to the members of the Horticultural
Society; they have to judge on the black tulip, and have no cognizance
to take of political offences. Go on, young woman, go on.”

Van Systens, by means of an eloquent glance, offered, in the name of the
tulip, his thanks to the new member of the Horticultural Society.

Rosa, reassured by this sort of encouragement which the stranger was
giving her, related all that had happened for the last three months,
all that she had done, and all that she had suffered. She described the
cruelty of Gryphus; the destruction of the first bulb; the grief of
the prisoner; the precautions taken to insure the success of the
second bulb; the patience of the prisoner and his anxiety during their
separation; how he was about to starve himself because he had no longer
any news of his tulip; his joy when she went to see him again; and,
lastly, their despair when they found that the tulip which had come into
flower was stolen just one hour after it had opened.

All this was detailed with an accent of truth which, although producing
no change in the impassible mien of the Prince, did not fail to take
effect on Van Systens.

“But,” said the Prince, “it cannot be long since you knew the prisoner.”

Rosa opened her large eyes and looked at the stranger, who drew back
into the dark corner, as if he wished to escape her observation.