“Why, sir?” she asked him.

“Because it is not yet four months since the jailer Gryphus and his
daughter were removed to Loewestein.”

“That is true, sir.”

“Otherwise, you must have solicited the transfer of your father, in
order to be able to follow some prisoner who may have been transported
from the Hague to Loewestein.”

“Sir,” said Rosa, blushing.

“Finish what you have to say,” said William.

“I confess I knew the prisoner at the Hague.”

“Happy prisoner!” said William, smiling.

At this moment the officer who had been sent for Boxtel returned, and
announced to the Prince that the person whom he had been to fetch was
following on his heels with his tulip.

Chapter 27. The Third Bulb

Boxtel’s return was scarcely announced, when he entered in person the
drawing-room of Mynheer van Systens, followed by two men, who carried in
a box their precious burden and deposited it on a table.

The Prince, on being informed, left the cabinet, passed into the
drawing-room, admired the flower, and silently resumed his seat in the
dark corner, where he had himself placed his chair.

Rosa, trembling, pale and terrified, expected to be invited in her turn
to see the tulip.

She now heard the voice of Boxtel.

“It is he!” she exclaimed.

The Prince made her a sign to go and look through the open door into the
drawing-room.

“It is my tulip,” cried Rosa, “I recognise it. Oh, my poor Cornelius!”

And saying this she burst into tears.

The Prince rose from his seat, went to the door, where he stood for some
time with the full light falling upon his figure.

As Rosa’s eyes now rested upon him, she felt more than ever convinced
that this was not the first time she had seen the stranger.

“Master Boxtel,” said the Prince, “come in here, if you please.”

Boxtel eagerly approached, and, finding himself face to face with
William of Orange, started back.

“His Highness!” he called out.

“His Highness!” Rosa repeated in dismay.

Hearing this exclamation on his left, Boxtel turned round, and perceived
Rosa.

At this sight the whole frame of the thief shook as if under the
influence of a galvanic shock.

“Ah!” muttered the Prince to himself, “he is confused.”

But Boxtel, making a violent effort to control his feelings, was already
himself again.

“Master Boxtel,” said William, “you seem to have discovered the secret
of growing the black tulip?”

“Yes, your Highness,” answered Boxtel, in a voice which still betrayed
some confusion.

It is true his agitation might have been attributable to the emotion
which the man must have felt on suddenly recognising the Prince.

“But,” continued the Stadtholder, “here is a young damsel who also
pretends to have found it.”

Boxtel, with a disdainful smile, shrugged his shoulders.

William watched all his movements with evident interest and curiosity.

“Then you don’t know this young girl?” said the Prince.

“No, your Highness!”

“And you, child, do you know Master Boxtel?”

“No, I don’t know Master Boxtel, but I know Master Jacob.”