And Rosa, unfolding the paper, offered the bulb to the Prince, who took
it from her hands and examined it.

“But, Monseigneur, this young woman may have stolen the bulb, as she did
the tulip,” Boxtel said, with a faltering voice, and evidently alarmed
at the attention with which the Prince examined the bulb; and even more
at the movements of Rosa, who was reading some lines written on the
paper which remained in her hands.

Her eyes suddenly lighted up; she read, with breathless anxiety, the
mysterious paper over and over again; and at last, uttering a cry, held
it out to the Prince and said, “Read, Monseigneur, for Heaven’s sake,
read!”

William handed the third bulb to Van Systens, took the paper, and read.

No sooner had he looked at it than he began to stagger; his hand
trembled, and very nearly let the paper fall to the ground; and the
expression of pain and compassion in his features was really frightful
to see.

It was that fly-leaf, taken from the Bible, which Cornelius de Witt had
sent to Dort by Craeke, the servant of his brother John, to request
Van Baerle to burn the correspondence of the Grand Pensionary with the
Marquis de Louvois.

This request, as the reader may remember, was couched in the following
terms:--

“My Dear Godson,--

“Burn the parcel which I have intrusted to you. Burn it without looking
at it, and without opening it, so that its contents may for ever remain
unknown to yourself. Secrets of this description are death to those
with whom they are deposited. Burn it, and you will have saved John and
Cornelius de Witt.

“Farewell, and love me.

“Cornelius de Witt.

“August 20, 1672.”

This slip of paper offered the proofs both of Van Baerle’s innocence and
of his claim to the property of the tulip.

Rosa and the Stadtholder exchanged one look only.

That of Rosa was meant to express, “Here, you see yourself.”

That of the Stadtholder signified, “Be quiet, and wait.”

The Prince wiped the cold sweat from his forehead, and slowly folded up
the paper, whilst his thoughts were wandering in that labyrinth without
a goal and without a guide, which is called remorse and shame for the
past.

Soon, however, raising his head with an effort, he said, in his usual
voice,--

“Go, Mr. Boxtel; justice shall be done, I promise you.”

Then, turning to the President, he added,--

“You, my dear Mynheer van Systens, take charge of this young woman and
of the tulip. Good-bye.”

All bowed, and the Prince left, among the deafening cheers of the crowd
outside.

Boxtel returned to his inn, rather puzzled and uneasy, tormented by
misgivings about that paper which William had received from the hand of
Rosa, and which his Highness had read, folded up, and so carefully put
in his pocket. What was the meaning of all this?