Rosa went up to the tulip, tenderly kissed its leaves and, with a heart
full of happiness and confidence in the ways of God, broke out in the
words,--

“Thou knowest best for what end Thou madest my good Cornelius teach me
to read.”

Chapter 28. The Hymn of the Flowers

Whilst the events we have described in our last chapter were taking
place, the unfortunate Van Baerle, forgotten in his cell in the fortress
of Loewestein, suffered at the hands of Gryphus all that a prisoner can
suffer when his jailer has formed the determination of playing the part
of hangman.

Gryphus, not having received any tidings of Rosa or of Jacob, persuaded
himself that all that had happened was the devil’s work, and that Dr.
Cornelius van Baerle had been sent on earth by Satan.

The result of it was, that, one fine morning, the third after the
disappearance of Jacob and Rosa, he went up to the cell of Cornelius in
even a greater rage than usual.

The latter, leaning with his elbows on the window-sill and supporting
his head with his two hands, whilst his eyes wandered over the distant
hazy horizon where the windmills of Dort were turning their sails, was
breathing the fresh air, in order to be able to keep down his tears and
to fortify himself in his philosophy.

The pigeons were still there, but hope was not there; there was no
future to look forward to.

Alas! Rosa, being watched, was no longer able to come. Could she not
write? and if so, could she convey her letters to him?

No, no. He had seen during the two preceding days too much fury and
malignity in the eyes of old Gryphus to expect that his vigilance would
relax, even for one moment. Moreover, had not she to suffer even worse
torments than those of seclusion and separation? Did this brutal,
blaspheming, drunken bully take revenge on his daughter, like the
ruthless fathers of the Greek drama? And when the Genièvre had heated
his brain, would it not give to his arm, which had been only too well
set by Cornelius, even double force?

The idea that Rosa might perhaps be ill-treated nearly drove Cornelius
mad.

He then felt his own powerlessness. He asked himself whether God was
just in inflicting so much tribulation on two innocent creatures. And
certainly in these moments he began to doubt the wisdom of Providence.
It is one of the curses of misfortune that it thus begets doubt.

Van Baerle had proposed to write to Rosa, but where was she?

He also would have wished to write to the Hague to be beforehand with
Gryphus, who, he had no doubt, would by denouncing him do his best to
bring new storms on his head.

But how should he write? Gryphus had taken the paper and pencil from
him, and even if he had both, he could hardly expect Gryphus to despatch
his letter.

Then Cornelius revolved in his mind all those stratagems resorted to by
unfortunate prisoners.