He had thought of an attempt to escape, a thing which never entered his
head whilst he could see Rosa every day; but the more he thought of it,
the more clearly he saw the impracticability of such an attempt. He was
one of those choice spirits who abhor everything that is common, and who
often lose a good chance through not taking the way of the vulgar, that
high road of mediocrity which leads to everything.

“How is it possible,” said Cornelius to himself, “that I should escape
from Loewestein, as Grotius has done the same thing before me? Has not
every precaution been taken since? Are not the windows barred? Are not
the doors of double and even of treble strength, and the sentinels ten
times more watchful? And have not I, besides all this, an Argus so much
the more dangerous as he has the keen eyes of hatred? Finally, is there
not one fact which takes away all my spirit, I mean Rosa’s absence? But
suppose I should waste ten years of my life in making a file to file off
my bars, or in braiding cords to let myself down from the window, or
in sticking wings on my shoulders to fly, like Dædalus? But luck is
against me now. The file would get dull, the rope would break, or my
wings would melt in the sun; I should surely kill myself, I should
be picked up maimed and crippled; I should be labelled, and put on
exhibition in the museum at the Hague between the blood-stained doublet
of William the Taciturn and the female walrus captured at Stavesen, and
the only result of my enterprise will have been to procure me a place
among the curiosities of Holland.

“But no; and it is much better so. Some fine day Gryphus will commit
some atrocity. I am losing my patience, since I have lost the joy and
company of Rosa, and especially since I have lost my tulip. Undoubtedly,
some day or other Gryphus will attack me in a manner painful to my
self-respect, or to my love, or even threaten my personal safety. I
don’t know how it is, but since my imprisonment I feel a strange and
almost irresistible pugnacity. Well, I shall get at the throat of that
old villain, and strangle him.”

Cornelius at these words stopped for a moment, biting his lips and
staring out before him; then, eagerly returning to an idea which seemed
to possess a strange fascination for him, he continued,--