“Well, and once having strangled him, why should I not take his keys
from him, why not go down the stairs as if I had done the most virtuous
action, why not go and fetch Rosa from her room, why not tell her all,
and jump from her window into the Waal? I am expert enough as a swimmer
to save both of us. Rosa,--but, oh Heaven, Gryphus is her father!
Whatever may be her affection for me, she will never approve of my
having strangled her father, brutal and malicious as he has been.

“I shall have to enter into an argument with her; and in the midst of my
speech some wretched turnkey who has found Gryphus with the death-rattle
in his throat, or perhaps actually dead, will come along and put his
hand on my shoulder. Then I shall see the Buytenhof again, and the gleam
of that infernal sword,--which will not stop half-way a second time, but
will make acquaintance with the nape of my neck.

“It will not do, Cornelius, my fine fellow,--it is a bad plan. But,
then, what is to become of me, and how shall I find Rosa again?”

Such were the cogitations of Cornelius three days after the sad scene
of separation from Rosa, at the moment when we find him standing at the
window.

And at that very moment Gryphus entered.

He held in his hand a huge stick, his eyes glistening with spiteful
thoughts, a malignant smile played round his lips, and the whole of
his carriage, and even all his movements, betokened bad and malicious
intentions.

Cornelius heard him enter, and guessed that it was he, but did not turn
round, as he knew well that Rosa was not coming after him.

There is nothing more galling to angry people than the coolness of those
on whom they wish to vent their spleen.

The expense being once incurred, one does not like to lose it; one’s
passion is roused, and one’s blood boiling, so it would be labour lost
not to have at least a nice little row.

Gryphus, therefore, on seeing that Cornelius did not stir, tried to
attract his attention by a loud--

“Umph, umph!”

Cornelius was humming between his teeth the “Hymn of Flowers,”--a sad
but very charming song,--

“We are the daughters of the secret fire Of the fire which runs through
the veins of the earth; We are the daughters of Aurora and of the dew;
We are the daughters of the air; We are the daughters of the water; But
we are, above all, the daughters of heaven.”

This song, the placid melancholy of which was still heightened by its
calm and sweet melody, exasperated Gryphus.

He struck his stick on the stone pavement of the cell, and called out,--

“Halloa! my warbling gentleman, don’t you hear me?”

Cornelius turned round, merely saying, “Good morning,” and then began
his song again:--