“Well, then, I, who am a sorcerer, as you know, change your bad into
excellent bread, which I relish more than the best cake; and then I have
the double pleasure of eating something that gratifies my palate, and of
doing something that puts you in a rage.”

Gryphus answered with a growl.

“Oh! you confess, then, that you are a sorcerer.”

“Indeed, I am one. I don’t say it before all the world, because they
might burn me for it, but as we are alone, I don’t mind telling you.”

“Well, well, well,” answered Gryphus. “But if a sorcerer can change
black bread into white, won’t he die of hunger if he has no bread at
all?”

“What’s that?” said Cornelius.

“Consequently, I shall not bring you any bread at all, and we shall see
how it will be after eight days.”

Cornelius grew pale.

“And,” continued Gryphus, “we’ll begin this very day. As you are such a
clever sorcerer, why, you had better change the furniture of your room
into bread; as to myself, I shall pocket the eighteen sous which are
paid to me for your board.”

“But that’s murder,” cried Cornelius, carried away by the first impulse
of the very natural terror with which this horrible mode of death
inspired him.

“Well,” Gryphus went on, in his jeering way, “as you are a sorcerer, you
will live, notwithstanding.”

Cornelius put on a smiling face again, and said,--

“Have you not seen me make the pigeons come here from Dort?”

“Well?” said Gryphus.

“Well, a pigeon is a very dainty morsel, and a man who eats one every
day would not starve, I think.”

“And how about the fire?” said Gryphus.

“Fire! but you know that I’m in league with the devil. Do you think the
devil will leave me without fire? Why, fire is his proper element.”

“A man, however healthy his appetite may be, would not eat a pigeon
every day. Wagers have been laid to do so, and those who made them gave
them up.”

“Well, but when I am tired of pigeons, I shall make the fish of the Waal
and of the Meuse come up to me.”

Gryphus opened his large eyes, quite bewildered.

“I am rather fond of fish,” continued Cornelius; “you never let me have
any. Well, I shall turn your starving me to advantage, and regale myself
with fish.”

Gryphus nearly fainted with anger and with fright, but he soon rallied,
and said, putting his hand in his pocket,--

“Well, as you force me to it,” and with these words he drew forth a
clasp-knife and opened it.

“Halloa! a knife?” said Cornelius, preparing to defend himself with his
stick.

Chapter 29. In which Van Baerle, before leaving Loewestein, settles
Accounts with Gryphus

The two remained silent for some minutes, Gryphus on the offensive, and
Van Baerle on the defensive.