In vain did Cornelius look to the right and to the left; he saw no sign
either of Rosa or Gryphus.

On reaching the Esplanade, he bravely looked about for the guards
who were to be his executioners, and in reality saw a dozen soldiers
assembled. But they were not standing in line, or carrying muskets, but
talking together so gayly that Cornelius felt almost shocked.

All at once, Gryphus, limping, staggering, and supporting himself on a
crooked stick, came forth from the jailer’s lodge; his old eyes, gray
as those of a cat, were lit up by a gleam in which all his hatred was
concentrated. He then began to pour forth such a torrent of disgusting
imprecations against Cornelius, that the latter, addressing the officer,
said,--

“I do not think it very becoming sir, that I should be thus insulted by
this man, especially at a moment like this.”

“Well! hear me,” said the officer, laughing, “it is quite natural that
this worthy fellow should bear you a grudge,--you seem to have given it
him very soundly.”

“But, sir, it was only in self-defence.”

“Never mind,” said the Captain, shrugging his shoulders like a true
philosopher, “let him talk; what does it matter to you now?”

The cold sweat stood on the brow of Cornelius at this answer, which he
looked upon somewhat in the light of brutal irony, especially as coming
from an officer of whom he had heard it said that he was attached to the
person of the Prince.

The unfortunate tulip-fancier then felt that he had no more resources,
and no more friends, and resigned himself to his fate.

“God’s will be done,” he muttered, bowing his head; then, turning
towards the officer, who seemed complacently to wait until he had
finished his meditations he asked,--

“Please, sir, tell me now, where am I to go?”

The officer pointed to a carriage, drawn by four horses, which reminded
him very strongly of that which, under similar circumstances, had before
attracted his attention at Buytenhof.

“Enter,” said the officer.

“Ah!” muttered Cornelius to himself, “it seems they are not going to
treat me to the honours of the Esplanade.”

He uttered these words loud enough for the chatty guard, who was at his
heels, to overhear him.

That kind soul very likely thought it his duty to give Cornelius some
new information; for, approaching the door of the carriage, whilst the
officer, with one foot on the step, was still giving some orders, he
whispered to Van Baerle,--

“Condémned prisoners have sometimes been taken to their own town to be
made an example of, and have then been executed before the door of their
own house. It’s all according to circumstances.”

Cornelius thanked him by signs, and then said to himself,--

“Well, here is a fellow who never misses giving consolation whenever an
opportunity presents itself. In truth, my friend, I’m very much obliged
to you. Goodbye.”

The carriage drove away.