“My child,” continued the Prince, “the feast of the tulip will be on
Sunday next, that is to say, the day after to-morrow. Make yourself
smart with these five hundred guilders, as I wish that day to be a great
day for you.”

“How does your Highness wish me to be dressed?” faltered Rosa.

“Take the costume of a Frisian bride.” said William; “it will suit you
very well indeed.”

Chapter 31. Haarlem

Haarlem, whither, three days ago, we conducted our gentle reader, and
whither we request him to follow us once more in the footsteps of the
prisoner, is a pleasant city, which justly prides itself on being one of
the most shady in all the Netherlands.

While other towns boast of the magnificence of their arsenals and
dock-yards, and the splendour of their shops and markets, Haarlem’s
claims to fame rest upon her superiority to all other provincial cities
in the number and beauty of her spreading elms, graceful poplars, and,
more than all, upon her pleasant walks, shaded by the lovely arches of
magnificent oaks, lindens, and chestnuts.

Haarlem,--just as her neighbour, Leyden, became the centre of science,
and her queen, Amsterdam, that of commerce,--Haarlem preferred to be the
agricultural, or, more strictly speaking, the horticultural metropolis.

In fact, girt about as she was, breezy and exposed to the sun’s hot
rays, she seemed to offer to gardeners so many more guarantees of
success than other places, with their heavy sea air, and their scorching
heat.

On this account all the serene souls who loved the earth and its fruits
had gradually gathered together at Haarlem, just as all the nervous,
uneasy spirits, whose ambition was for travel and commerce, had
settled in Rotterdam and Amsterdam, and all the politicians and selfish
worldlings at the Hague.

We have observed that Leyden overflowed with scholars. In like manner
Haarlem was devoted to the gentle pursuits of peace,--to music and
painting, orchards and avenues, groves and parks. Haarlem went wild
about flowers, and tulips received their full share of worship.

Haarlem offered prizes for tulip-growing; and this fact brings us in the
most natural manner to that celebration which the city intended to hold
on May 15th, 1673 in honour of the great black tulip, immaculate and
perfect, which should gain for its discoverer one hundred thousand
guilders!

Haarlem, having placed on exhibition its favourite, having advertised
its love of flowers in general and of tulips in particular, at a period
when the souls of men were filled with war and sedition,--Haarlem,
having enjoyed the exquisite pleasure of admiring the very purest ideal
of tulips in full bloom,--Haarlem, this tiny town, full of trees and
of sunshine, of light and shade, had determined that the ceremony of
bestowing the prize should be a fete which should live for ever in the
memory of men.