So much the more reason was there, too, in her determination, in that
Holland is the home of fetes; never did sluggish natures manifest more
eager energy of the singing and dancing sort than those of the good
republicans of the Seven Provinces when amusement was the order of the
day.

Study the pictures of the two Teniers.

It is certain that sluggish folk are of all men the most earnest in
tiring themselves, not when they are at work, but at play.

Thus Haarlem was thrice given over to rejoicing, for a three-fold
celebration was to take place.

In the first place, the black tulip had been produced; secondly, the
Prince William of Orange, as a true Hollander, had promised to be
present at the ceremony of its inauguration; and, thirdly, it was a
point of honour with the States to show to the French, at the conclusion
of such a disastrous war as that of 1672, that the flooring of the
Batavian Republic was solid enough for its people to dance on it, with
the accompaniment of the cannon of their fleets.

which did not wish to be outdone, voted a like sum, which was placed in
the hands of that notable body to solemnise the auspicious event.

And indeed on the Sunday fixed for this ceremony there was such a stir
among the people, and such an enthusiasm among the townsfolk, that
even a Frenchman, who laughs at everything at all times, could not
have helped admiring the character of those honest Hollanders, who
were equally ready to spend their money for the construction of a
man-of-war--that is to say, for the support of national honour--as they
were to reward the growth of a new flower, destined to bloom for one
day, and to serve during that day to divert the ladies, the learned, and
the curious.

At the head of the notables and of the Horticultural Committee shone
Mynheer van Systens, dressed in his richest habiliments.

The worthy man had done his best to imitate his favourite flower in the
sombre and stern elegance of his garments; and we are bound to record,
to his honour, that he had perfectly succeeded in his object.

Dark crimson velvet, dark purple silk, and jet-black cloth, with linen
of dazzling whiteness, composed the festive dress of the President, who
marched at the head of his Committee carrying an enormous nosegay, like
that which a hundred and twenty-one years later, Monsieur de Robespierre
displayed at the festival of “The Supreme Being.”

There was, however, a little difference between the two; very different
from the French tribune, whose heart was so full of hatred and ambitious
vindictiveness, was the honest President, who carried in his bosom a
heart as innocent as the flowers which he held in his hand.

Behind the Committee, who were as gay as a meadow, and as fragrant as
a garden in spring, marched the learned societies of the town, the
magistrates, the military, the nobles and the boors.