The people, even among the respected republicans of the Seven Provinces,
had no place assigned to them in the procession; they merely lined the
streets.

This is the place for the multitude, which with true philosophic spirit,
waits until the triumphal pageants have passed, to know what to say of
them, and sometimes also to know what to do.

This time, however, there was no question either of the triumph of
Pompey or of Cæsar; neither of the defeat of Mithridates, nor of the
conquest of Gaul. The procession was as placid as the passing of a flock
of lambs, and as inoffensive as a flight of birds sweeping through the
air.

Haarlem had no other triumphers, except its gardeners. Worshipping
flowers, Haarlem idolised the florist.

In the centre of this pacific and fragrant cortege the black tulip
was seen, carried on a litter, which was covered with white velvet and
fringed with gold.

The handles of the litter were supported by four men, who were from time
to time relieved by fresh relays,--even as the bearers of Mother Cybele
used to take turn and turn about at Rome in the ancient days, when she
was brought from Etruria to the Eternal City, amid the blare of trumpets
and the worship of a whole nation.

culture of its illustrious and devout leaders, whose blood had stained
the foul pavement of the Buytenhof, reserving the right at a future day
to inscribe the names of its victims upon the highest stone of the Dutch
Pantheon.

It was arranged that the Prince Stadtholder himself should give the
prize of a hundred thousand guilders, which interested the people at
large, and it was thought that perhaps he would make a speech which
interested more particularly his friends and enemies.

For in the most insignificant words of men of political importance their
friends and their opponents always endeavour to detect, and hence think
they can interpret, something of their true thoughts.

As if your true politician’s hat were not a bushel under which he always
hides his light!

At length the great and long-expected day--May 15, 1673--arrived; and
all Haarlem, swelled by her neighbours, was gathered in the beautiful
tree-lined streets, determined on this occasion not to waste its
applause upon military heroes, or those who had won notable victories
in the field of science, but to reserve their applause for those who had
overcome Nature, and had forced the inexhaustible mother to be delivered
of what had theretofore been regarded as impossible,--a completely black
tulip.

Nothing however, is more fickle than such a resolution of the people.
When a crowd is once in the humour to cheer, it is just the same as when
it begins to hiss. It never knows when to stop.