“To see the black tulip, Monseigneur,” said Van Baerle, clasping his
hands, “and when I have seen it, when I have seen what I desire to know,
I am quite ready to die, if die I must; but in dying I shall bless your
Highness’s mercy for having allowed me to witness the glorification of
my work.”

It was, indeed, a curious spectacle to see these two men at the windows
of their several carriages; the one surrounded by his guards, and all
powerful, the other a prisoner and miserable; the one going to mount a
throne, the other believing himself to be on his way to the scaffold.

William, looking with his cold glance on Cornelius, listened to his
anxious and urgent request.

Then addressing himself to the officer, he said,--

“Is this person the mutinous prisoner who has attempted to kill his
jailer at Loewestein?”

Cornelius heaved a sigh and hung his head. His good-tempered honest face
turned pale and red at the same instant. These words of the all-powerful
Prince, who by some secret messenger unavailable to other mortals had
already been apprised of his crime, seemed to him to forebode not only
his doom, but also the refusal of his last request.

He did not try to make a struggle, or to defend himself; and he
presented to the Prince the affecting spectacle of despairing innocence,

“Allow the prisoner to alight, and let him see the black tulip; it is
well worth being seen once.”

“Thank you, Monseigneur, thank you,” said Cornelius, nearly swooning
with joy, and staggering on the steps of his carriage; had not the
officer supported him, our poor friend would have made his thanks to his
Highness prostrate on his knees with his forehead in the dust.

After having granted this permission, the Prince proceeded on his way
over the green amidst the most enthusiastic acclamations.

He soon arrived at the platform, and the thunder of cannon shook the
air.

Chapter 33. Conclusion

Van Baerle, led by four guards, who pushed their way through the crowd,
sidled up to the black tulip, towards which his gaze was attracted with
increasing interest the nearer he approached to it.

He saw it at last, that unique flower, which he was to see once and no
more. He saw it at the distance of six paces, and was delighted with its
perfection and gracefulness; he saw it surrounded by young and beautiful
girls, who formed, as it were, a guard of honour for this queen of
excellence and purity. And yet, the more he ascertained with his own
eyes the perfection of the flower, the more wretched and miserable he
felt. He looked all around for some one to whom he might address
only one question, but his eyes everywhere met strange faces, and the
attention of all was directed towards the chair of state, on which the
Stadtholder had seated himself.