William rose, casting a tranquil glance over the enthusiastic crowd,
and his keen eyes rested by turns on the three extremities of a triangle
formed opposite to him by three persons of very different interests and
feelings.

At one of the angles, Boxtel, trembling with impatience, and quite
absorbed in watching the Prince, the guilders, the black tulip, and the
crowd.

At the other, Cornelius, panting for breath, silent, and his attention,
his eyes, his life, his heart, his love, quite concentrated on the black
tulip.

And thirdly, standing on a raised step among the maidens of Haarlem,
a beautiful Frisian girl, dressed in fine scarlet woollen cloth,
embroidered with silver, and covered with a lace veil, which fell in
rich folds from her head-dress of gold brocade; in one word, Rosa,
who, faint and with swimming eyes, was leaning on the arm of one of the
officers of William.

The Prince then slowly unfolded the parchment, and said, with a calm
clear voice, which, although low, made itself perfectly heard amidst
the respectful silence, which all at once arrested the breath of fifty
thousand spectators:--

“You know what has brought us here?

“A prize of one hundred thousand guilders has been promised to whosoever
should grow the black tulip.

“The black tulip has been grown; here it is before your eyes, coming
up to all the conditions required by the programme of the Horticultural
Society of Haarlem.

“The history of its production, and the name of its grower, will be
inscribed in the book of honour of the city.

“Let the person approach to whom the black tulip belongs.”

In pronouncing these words, the Prince, to judge of the effect they
produced, surveyed with his eagle eye the three extremities of the
triangle.

He saw Boxtel rushing forward. He saw Cornelius make an involuntary
movement; and lastly he saw the officer who was taking care of Rosa
lead, or rather push her forward towards him.

At the sight of Rosa, a double cry arose on the right and left of the
Prince.

Boxtel, thunderstruck, and Cornelius, in joyful amazement, both
exclaimed,--

“Rosa! Rosa!”

“This tulip is yours, is it not, my child?” said the Prince.

“Yes, Monseigneur,” stammered Rosa, whose striking beauty excited a
general murmur of applause.

“Oh!” muttered Cornelius, “she has then belied me, when she said this
flower was stolen from her. Oh! that’s why she left Loewestein. Alas!
am I then forgotten, betrayed by her whom I thought my best friend on
earth?”

“Oh!” sighed Boxtel, “I am lost.”

“This tulip,” continued the Prince, “will therefore bear the name of its
producer, and figure in the catalogue under the title, Tulipa nigra Rosa
Barlœnsis, because of the name Van Baerle, which will henceforth be the
name of this damsel.”