The Prince, after these last words, which contrary to his custom, he
pronounced with a voice full of emotion, gave his hands to the lovers to
kiss, whilst they were kneeling before him.

Then heaving a sigh, he said,--

“Alas! you are very happy, who, dreaming only of what perhaps is the
true glory of Holland, and forms especially her true happiness, do not
attempt to acquire for her anything beyond new colours of tulips.”

And, casting a glance towards that point of the compass where France
lay, as if he saw new clouds gathering there, he entered his carriage
and drove off.

*****

Cornelius started on the same day for Dort with Rosa, who sent her
lover’s old housekeeper as a messenger to her father, to apprise him of
all that had taken place.

Those who, thanks to our description, have learned the character of old
Gryphus, will comprehend that it was hard for him to become reconciled
to his son-in-law. He had not yet forgotten the blows which he had
received in that famous encounter. To judge from the weals which he
counted, their number, he said, amounted to forty-one; but at last, in
order, as he declared, not to be less generous than his Highness the
Stadtholder, he consented to make his peace.

Appointed to watch over the tulips, the old man made the rudest keeper
of flowers in the whole of the Seven Provinces.

It was indeed a sight to see him watching the obnoxious moths and
butterflies, killing slugs, and driving away the hungry bees.

As he had heard Boxtel’s story, and was furious at having been the
dupe of the pretended Jacob, he destroyed the sycamore behind which
the envious Isaac had spied into the garden; for the plot of ground
belonging to him had been bought by Cornelius, and taken into his own
garden.

Rosa, growing not only in beauty, but in wisdom also, after two years
of her married life, could read and write so well that she was able to
undertake by herself the education of two beautiful children which she
had borne in 1674 and 1675, both in May, the month of flowers.

As a matter of course, one was a boy, the other a girl, the former being
called Cornelius, the other Rosa.

Van Baerle remained faithfully attached to Rosa and to his tulips.
The whole of his life was devoted to the happiness of his wife and
the culture of flowers, in the latter of which occupations he was so
successful that a great number of his varieties found a place in the
catalogue of Holland.