“Didn’t you know _that_?” cried another Daisy, and here they all began
shouting together, till the air seemed quite full of little shrill
voices. “Silence, every one of you!” cried the Tiger-lily, waving
itself passionately from side to side, and trembling with excitement.
“They know I can’t get at them!” it panted, bending its quivering head
towards Alice, “or they wouldn’t dare to do it!”

“Never mind!” Alice said in a soothing tone, and stooping down to the
daisies, who were just beginning again, she whispered, “If you don’t
hold your tongues, I’ll pick you!”

There was silence in a moment, and several of the pink daisies turned
white.

“That’s right!” said the Tiger-lily. “The daisies are worst of all.
When one speaks, they all begin together, and it’s enough to make one
wither to hear the way they go on!”

“How is it you can all talk so nicely?” Alice said, hoping to get it
into a better temper by a compliment. “I’ve been in many gardens
before, but none of the flowers could talk.”

“Put your hand down, and feel the ground,” said the Tiger-lily. “Then
you’ll know why.”

Alice did so. “It’s very hard,” she said, “but I don’t see what that
has to do with it.”

“In most gardens,” the Tiger-lily said, “they make the beds too soft—so
that the flowers are always asleep.”

This sounded a very good reason, and Alice was quite pleased to know
it. “I never thought of that before!” she said.

“It’s _my_ opinion that you never think _at all_,” the Rose said in a
rather severe tone.

“I never saw anybody that looked stupider,” a Violet said, so suddenly,
that Alice quite jumped; for it hadn’t spoken before.

“Hold _your_ tongue!” cried the Tiger-lily. “As if _you_ ever saw
anybody! You keep your head under the leaves, and snore away there,
till you know no more what’s going on in the world, than if you were a
bud!”

“Are there any more people in the garden besides me?” Alice said, not
choosing to notice the Rose’s last remark.

“There’s one other flower in the garden that can move about like you,”
said the Rose. “I wonder how you do it—” (“You’re always wondering,”
said the Tiger-lily), “but she’s more bushy than you are.”

“Is she like me?” Alice asked eagerly, for the thought crossed her
mind, “There’s another little girl in the garden, somewhere!”

“Well, she has the same awkward shape as you,” the Rose said, “but
she’s redder—and her petals are shorter, I think.”

“Her petals are done up close, almost like a dahlia,” the Tiger-lily
interrupted: “not tumbled about anyhow, like yours.”

“But that’s not _your_ fault,” the Rose added kindly: “you’re beginning
to fade, you know—and then one can’t help one’s petals getting a little
untidy.”

Alice didn’t like this idea at all: so, to change the subject, she
asked “Does she ever come out here?”

“I daresay you’ll see her soon,” said the Rose. “She’s one of the
thorny kind.”