“What tremendously easy riddles you ask!” Humpty Dumpty growled out.
“Of course I don’t think so! Why, if ever I _did_ fall off—which
there’s no chance of—but _if_ I did—” Here he pursed his lips and
looked so solemn and grand that Alice could hardly help laughing. “_If_
I did fall,” he went on, “_The King has promised me—with his very own
mouth_—to—to—”

“To send all his horses and all his men,” Alice interrupted, rather
unwisely.

“Now I declare that’s too bad!” Humpty Dumpty cried, breaking into a
sudden passion. “You’ve been listening at doors—and behind trees—and
down chimneys—or you couldn’t have known it!”

“I haven’t, indeed!” Alice said very gently. “It’s in a book.”

“Ah, well! They may write such things in a _book_,” Humpty Dumpty said
in a calmer tone. “That’s what you call a History of England, that is.
Now, take a good look at me! I’m one that has spoken to a King, _I_ am:
mayhap you’ll never see such another: and to show you I’m not proud,
you may shake hands with me!” And he grinned almost from ear to ear, as
he leant forwards (and as nearly as possible fell off the wall in doing
so) and offered Alice his hand. She watched him a little anxiously as
she took it. “If he smiled much more, the ends of his mouth might meet
behind,” she thought: “and then I don’t know what would happen to his
head! I’m afraid it would come off!”

“Yes, all his horses and all his men,” Humpty Dumpty went on. “They’d
pick me up again in a minute, _they_ would! However, this conversation
is going on a little too fast: let’s go back to the last remark but
one.”

“I’m afraid I can’t quite remember it,” Alice said very politely.

“In that case we start fresh,” said Humpty Dumpty, “and it’s my turn to
choose a subject—” (“He talks about it just as if it was a game!”
thought Alice.) “So here’s a question for you. How old did you say you
were?”

Alice made a short calculation, and said “Seven years and six months.”

“Wrong!” Humpty Dumpty exclaimed triumphantly. “You never said a word
like it!”

“I though you meant ‘How old _are_ you?’” Alice explained.

“If I’d meant that, I’d have said it,” said Humpty Dumpty.

Alice didn’t want to begin another argument, so she said nothing.

“Seven years and six months!” Humpty Dumpty repeated thoughtfully. “An
uncomfortable sort of age. Now if you’d asked _my_ advice, I’d have
said ‘Leave off at seven’—but it’s too late now.”

“I never ask advice about growing,” Alice said indignantly.

“Too proud?” the other inquired.

Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion. “I mean,” she said,
“that one can’t help growing older.”

“_One_ can’t, perhaps,” said Humpty Dumpty, “but _two_ can. With proper
assistance, you might have left off at seven.”

“What a beautiful belt you’ve got on!” Alice suddenly remarked.