I said to him, I said it plain,
‘Then you must wake them up again.’

I said it very loud and clear;
I went and shouted in his ear.”

Humpty Dumpty raised his voice almost to a scream as he repeated this
verse, and Alice thought with a shudder, “I wouldn’t have been the
messenger for _anything_!”

“But he was very stiff and proud;
He said ‘You needn’t shout so loud!’

And he was very proud and stiff;
He said ‘I’d go and wake them, if—’

I took a corkscrew from the shelf:
I went to wake them up myself.

And when I found the door was locked,
I pulled and pushed and kicked and knocked.

And when I found the door was shut,
I tried to turn the handle, but—”

There was a long pause.

“Is that all?” Alice timidly asked.

“That’s all,” said Humpty Dumpty. “Good-bye.”

This was rather sudden, Alice thought: but, after such a _very_ strong
hint that she ought to be going, she felt that it would hardly be civil
to stay. So she got up, and held out her hand. “Good-bye, till we meet
again!” she said as cheerfully as she could.

“I shouldn’t know you again if we _did_ meet,” Humpty Dumpty replied in
a discontented tone, giving her one of his fingers to shake; “you’re so
exactly like other people.”

“The face is what one goes by, generally,” Alice remarked in a
thoughtful tone.

“That’s just what I complain of,” said Humpty Dumpty. “Your face is the
same as everybody has—the two eyes, so—” (marking their places in the
air with this thumb) “nose in the middle, mouth under. It’s always the
same. Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose, for
instance—or the mouth at the top—that would be _some_ help.”

“It wouldn’t look nice,” Alice objected. But Humpty Dumpty only shut
his eyes and said “Wait till you’ve tried.”

Alice waited a minute to see if he would speak again, but as he never
opened his eyes or took any further notice of her, she said “Good-bye!”
once more, and, getting no answer to this, she quietly walked away: but
she couldn’t help saying to herself as she went, “Of all the
unsatisfactory—” (she repeated this aloud, as it was a great comfort to
have such a long word to say) “of all the unsatisfactory people I
_ever_ met—” She never finished the sentence, for at this moment a
heavy crash shook the forest from end to end.

CHAPTER VII.
The Lion and the Unicorn

The next moment soldiers came running through the wood, at first in
twos and threes, then ten or twenty together, and at last in such
crowds that they seemed to fill the whole forest. Alice got behind a
tree, for fear of being run over, and watched them go by.