“The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown:
The Lion beat the Unicorn all round the town.
Some gave them white bread, some gave them brown;
Some gave them plum-cake and drummed them out of town.”

“Does—the one—that wins—get the crown?” she asked, as well as she
could, for the run was putting her quite out of breath.

“Dear me, no!” said the King. “What an idea!”

“Would you—be good enough,” Alice panted out, after running a little
further, “to stop a minute—just to get—one’s breath again?”

“I’m _good_ enough,” the King said, “only I’m not strong enough. You
see, a minute goes by so fearfully quick. You might as well try to stop
a Bandersnatch!”

Alice had no more breath for talking, so they trotted on in silence,
till they came in sight of a great crowd, in the middle of which the
Lion and Unicorn were fighting. They were in such a cloud of dust, that
at first Alice could not make out which was which: but she soon managed
to distinguish the Unicorn by his horn.

They placed themselves close to where Hatta, the other messenger, was
standing watching the fight, with a cup of tea in one hand and a piece
of bread-and-butter in the other.

“He’s only just out of prison, and he hadn’t finished his tea when he
was sent in,” Haigha whispered to Alice: “and they only give them
oyster-shells in there—so you see he’s very hungry and thirsty. How are
you, dear child?” he went on, putting his arm affectionately round
Hatta’s neck.

Hatta looked round and nodded, and went on with his bread and butter.

“Were you happy in prison, dear child?” said Haigha.

Hatta looked round once more, and this time a tear or two trickled down
his cheek: but not a word would he say.

“Speak, can’t you!” Haigha cried impatiently. But Hatta only munched
away, and drank some more tea.

“Speak, won’t you!” cried the King. “How are they getting on with the
fight?”

Hatta made a desperate effort, and swallowed a large piece of
bread-and-butter. “They’re getting on very well,” he said in a choking
voice: “each of them has been down about eighty-seven times.”

“Then I suppose they’ll soon bring the white bread and the brown?”
Alice ventured to remark.

“It’s waiting for ’em now,” said Hatta: “this is a bit of it as I’m
eating.”

There was a pause in the fight just then, and the Lion and the Unicorn
sat down, panting, while the King called out “Ten minutes allowed for
refreshments!” Haigha and Hatta set to work at once, carrying rough
trays of white and brown bread. Alice took a piece to taste, but it was
_very_ dry.

“I don’t think they’ll fight any more to-day,” the King said to Hatta:
“go and order the drums to begin.” And Hatta went bounding away like a
grasshopper.