The Lion looked at Alice wearily. “Are you animal—vegetable—or
mineral?” he said, yawning at every other word.

“It’s a fabulous monster!” the Unicorn cried out, before Alice could
reply.

“Then hand round the plum-cake, Monster,” the Lion said, lying down and
putting his chin on his paws. “And sit down, both of you,” (to the King
and the Unicorn): “fair play with the cake, you know!”

The King was evidently very uncomfortable at having to sit down between
the two great creatures; but there was no other place for him.

“What a fight we might have for the crown, _now_!” the Unicorn said,
looking slyly up at the crown, which the poor King was nearly shaking
off his head, he trembled so much.

“I should win easy,” said the Lion.

“I’m not so sure of that,” said the Unicorn.

“Why, I beat you all round the town, you chicken!” the Lion replied
angrily, half getting up as he spoke.

Here the King interrupted, to prevent the quarrel going on: he was very
nervous, and his voice quite quivered. “All round the town?” he said.
“That’s a good long way. Did you go by the old bridge, or the
market-place? You get the best view by the old bridge.”

“I’m sure I don’t know,” the Lion growled out as he lay down again.
“There was too much dust to see anything. What a time the Monster is,
cutting up that cake!”

Alice had seated herself on the bank of a little brook, with the great
dish on her knees, and was sawing away diligently with the knife. “It’s
very provoking!” she said, in reply to the Lion (she was getting quite
used to being called “the Monster”). “I’ve cut several slices already,
but they always join on again!”

“You don’t know how to manage Looking-glass cakes,” the Unicorn
remarked. “Hand it round first, and cut it afterwards.”

This sounded nonsense, but Alice very obediently got up, and carried
the dish round, and the cake divided itself into three pieces as she
did so. “_Now_ cut it up,” said the Lion, as she returned to her place
with the empty dish.

“I say, this isn’t fair!” cried the Unicorn, as Alice sat with the
knife in her hand, very much puzzled how to begin. “The Monster has
given the Lion twice as much as me!”

“She’s kept none for herself, anyhow,” said the Lion. “Do you like
plum-cake, Monster?”

But before Alice could answer him, the drums began.

Where the noise came from, she couldn’t make out: the air seemed full
of it, and it rang through and through her head till she felt quite
deafened. She started to her feet and sprang across the little brook in
her terror,

*      *      *      *      *      *      *

*      *      *      *      *      *

*      *      *      *      *      *      *