“Yes, it’s a very good bee-hive,” the Knight said in a discontented
tone, “one of the best kind. But not a single bee has come near it yet.
And the other thing is a mouse-trap. I suppose the mice keep the bees
out—or the bees keep the mice out, I don’t know which.”

“I was wondering what the mouse-trap was for,” said Alice. “It isn’t
very likely there would be any mice on the horse’s back.”

“Not very likely, perhaps,” said the Knight: “but if they _do_ come, I
don’t choose to have them running all about.”

“You see,” he went on after a pause, “it’s as well to be provided for
_everything_. That’s the reason the horse has all those anklets round
his feet.”

“But what are they for?” Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

“To guard against the bites of sharks,” the Knight replied. “It’s an
invention of my own. And now help me on. I’ll go with you to the end of
the wood—What’s the dish for?”

“It’s meant for plum-cake,” said Alice.

“We’d better take it with us,” the Knight said. “It’ll come in handy if
we find any plum-cake. Help me to get it into this bag.”

This took a very long time to manage, though Alice held the bag open
very carefully, because the Knight was so _very_ awkward in putting in
the dish: the first two or three times that he tried he fell in himself
instead. “It’s rather a tight fit, you see,” he said, as they got it in
a last; “There are so many candlesticks in the bag.” And he hung it to
the saddle, which was already loaded with bunches of carrots, and
fire-irons, and many other things.

“I hope you’ve got your hair well fastened on?” he continued, as they
set off.

“Only in the usual way,” Alice said, smiling.

“That’s hardly enough,” he said, anxiously. “You see the wind is so
_very_ strong here. It’s as strong as soup.”

“Have you invented a plan for keeping the hair from being blown off?”
Alice enquired.

“Not yet,” said the Knight. “But I’ve got a plan for keeping it from
_falling_ off.”

“I should like to hear it, very much.”

“First you take an upright stick,” said the Knight. “Then you make your
hair creep up it, like a fruit-tree. Now the reason hair falls off is
because it hangs _down_—things never fall _upwards_, you know. It’s a
plan of my own invention. You may try it if you like.”

It didn’t sound a comfortable plan, Alice thought, and for a few
minutes she walked on in silence, puzzling over the idea, and every now
and then stopping to help the poor Knight, who certainly was _not_ a
good rider.