“But if everybody obeyed that rule,” said Alice, who was always ready
for a little argument, “and if you only spoke when you were spoken to,
and the other person always waited for _you_ to begin, you see nobody
would ever say anything, so that—”

“Ridiculous!” cried the Queen. “Why, don’t you see, child—” here she
broke off with a frown, and, after thinking for a minute, suddenly
changed the subject of the conversation. “What do you mean by ‘If you
really are a Queen’? What right have you to call yourself so? You can’t
be a Queen, you know, till you’ve passed the proper examination. And
the sooner we begin it, the better.”

“I only said ‘if’!” poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone.

The two Queens looked at each other, and the Red Queen remarked, with a
little shudder, “She _says_ she only said ‘if’—”

“But she said a great deal more than that!” the White Queen moaned,
wringing her hands. “Oh, ever so much more than that!”

“So you did, you know,” the Red Queen said to Alice. “Always speak the
truth—think before you speak—and write it down afterwards.”

“I’m sure I didn’t mean—” Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen
interrupted her impatiently.

“That’s just what I complain of! You _should_ have meant! What do you
suppose is the use of child without any meaning? Even a joke should
have some meaning—and a child’s more important than a joke, I hope. You
couldn’t deny that, even if you tried with both hands.”

“I don’t deny things with my _hands_,” Alice objected.

“Nobody said you did,” said the Red Queen. “I said you couldn’t if you
tried.”

“She’s in that state of mind,” said the White Queen, “that she wants to
deny _something_—only she doesn’t know what to deny!”

“A nasty, vicious temper,” the Red Queen remarked; and then there was
an uncomfortable silence for a minute or two.

The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen, “I invite
you to Alice’s dinner-party this afternoon.”

The White Queen smiled feebly, and said “And I invite _you_.”

“I didn’t know I was to have a party at all,” said Alice; “but if there
is to be one, I think _I_ ought to invite the guests.”

“We gave you the opportunity of doing it,” the Red Queen remarked: “but
I daresay you’ve not had many lessons in manners yet?”

“Manners are not taught in lessons,” said Alice. “Lessons teach you to
do sums, and things of that sort.”

“And you do Addition?” the White Queen asked. “What’s one and one and
one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one?”

“I don’t know,” said Alice. “I lost count.”

“She can’t do Addition,” the Red Queen interrupted. “Can you do
Subtraction? Take nine from eight.”

“Nine from eight I can’t, you know,” Alice replied very readily: “but—”

“She can’t do Subtraction,” said the White Queen. “Can you do Division?
Divide a loaf by a knife—what’s the answer to that?”