“I suppose—” Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen answered for her.
“Bread-and-butter, of course. Try another Subtraction sum. Take a bone
from a dog: what remains?”

Alice considered. “The bone wouldn’t remain, of course, if I took
it—and the dog wouldn’t remain; it would come to bite me—and I’m sure
_I_ shouldn’t remain!”

“Then you think nothing would remain?” said the Red Queen.

“I think that’s the answer.”

“Wrong, as usual,” said the Red Queen: “the dog’s temper would remain.”

“But I don’t see how—”

“Why, look here!” the Red Queen cried. “The dog would lose its temper,
wouldn’t it?”

“Perhaps it would,” Alice replied cautiously.

“Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!” the Queen
exclaimed triumphantly.

Alice said, as gravely as she could, “They might go different ways.”
But she couldn’t help thinking to herself, “What dreadful nonsense we
_are_ talking!”

“She can’t do sums a _bit_!” the Queens said together, with great
emphasis.

“Can _you_ do sums?” Alice said, turning suddenly on the White Queen,
for she didn’t like being found fault with so much.

The Queen gasped and shut her eyes. “I can do Addition, if you give me
time—but I can’t do Subtraction, under _any_ circumstances!”

“Of course you know your A B C?” said the Red Queen.

“To be sure I do.” said Alice.

“So do I,” the White Queen whispered: “we’ll often say it over
together, dear. And I’ll tell you a secret—I can read words of one
letter! Isn’t _that_ grand! However, don’t be discouraged. You’ll come
to it in time.”

Here the Red Queen began again. “Can you answer useful questions?” she
said. “How is bread made?”

“I know _that_!” Alice cried eagerly. “You take some flour—”

“Where do you pick the flower?” the White Queen asked. “In a garden, or
in the hedges?”

“Well, it isn’t _picked_ at all,” Alice explained: “it’s _ground_—”

“How many acres of ground?” said the White Queen. “You mustn’t leave
out so many things.”

“Fan her head!” the Red Queen anxiously interrupted. “She’ll be
feverish after so much thinking.” So they set to work and fanned her
with bunches of leaves, till she had to beg them to leave off, it blew
her hair about so.

“She’s all right again now,” said the Red Queen. “Do you know
Languages? What’s the French for fiddle-de-dee?”

“Fiddle-de-dee’s not English,” Alice replied gravely.

“Who ever said it was?” said the Red Queen.

Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time. “If you’ll
tell me what language ‘fiddle-de-dee’ is, I’ll tell you the French for
it!” she exclaimed triumphantly.

But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly, and said “Queens
never make bargains.”

“I wish Queens never asked questions,” Alice thought to herself.

“Don’t let us quarrel,” the White Queen said in an anxious tone. “What
is the cause of lightning?”

“The cause of lightning,” Alice said very decidedly, for she felt quite
certain about this, “is the thunder—no, no!” she hastily corrected
herself. “I meant the other way.”