“It’s too late to correct it,” said the Red Queen: “when you’ve once
said a thing, that fixes it, and you must take the consequences.”

“Which reminds me—” the White Queen said, looking down and nervously
clasping and unclasping her hands, “we had _such_ a thunderstorm last
Tuesday—I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays, you know.”

Alice was puzzled. “In _our_ country,” she remarked, “there’s only one
day at a time.”

The Red Queen said, “That’s a poor thin way of doing things. Now
_here_, we mostly have days and nights two or three at a time, and
sometimes in the winter we take as many as five nights together—for
warmth, you know.”

“Are five nights warmer than one night, then?” Alice ventured to ask.

“Five times as warm, of course.”

“But they should be five times as _cold_, by the same rule—”

“Just so!” cried the Red Queen. “Five times as warm, _and_ five times
as cold—just as I’m five times as rich as you are, _and_ five times as
clever!”

Alice sighed and gave it up. “It’s exactly like a riddle with no
answer!” she thought.

“Humpty Dumpty saw it too,” the White Queen went on in a low voice,
more as if she were talking to herself. “He came to the door with a
corkscrew in his hand—”

“What did he want?” said the Red Queen.

“He said he _would_ come in,” the White Queen went on, “because he was
looking for a hippopotamus. Now, as it happened, there wasn’t such a
thing in the house, that morning.”

“Is there generally?” Alice asked in an astonished tone.

“Well, only on Thursdays,” said the Queen.

“I know what he came for,” said Alice: “he wanted to punish the fish,
because—”

Here the White Queen began again. “It was _such_ a thunderstorm, you
can’t think!” (“She _never_ could, you know,” said the Red Queen.) “And
part of the roof came off, and ever so much thunder got in—and it went
rolling round the room in great lumps—and knocking over the tables and
things—till I was so frightened, I couldn’t remember my own name!”

Alice thought to herself, “I never should _try_ to remember my name in
the middle of an accident! Where would be the use of it?” but she did
not say this aloud, for fear of hurting the poor Queen’s feeling.

“Your Majesty must excuse her,” the Red Queen said to Alice, taking one
of the White Queen’s hands in her own, and gently stroking it: “she
means well, but she can’t help saying foolish things, as a general
rule.”

The White Queen looked timidly at Alice, who felt she _ought_ to say
something kind, but really couldn’t think of anything at the moment.

“She never was really well brought up,” the Red Queen went on: “but
it’s amazing how good-tempered she is! Pat her on the head, and see how
pleased she’ll be!” But this was more than Alice had courage to do.

“A little kindness—and putting her hair in papers—would do wonders with
her—”