At last the Red Queen began. “You’ve missed the soup and fish,” she
said. “Put on the joint!” And the waiters set a leg of mutton before
Alice, who looked at it rather anxiously, as she had never had to carve
a joint before.

“You look a little shy; let me introduce you to that leg of mutton,”
said the Red Queen. “Alice—Mutton; Mutton—Alice.” The leg of mutton got
up in the dish and made a little bow to Alice; and Alice returned the
bow, not knowing whether to be frightened or amused.

“May I give you a slice?” she said, taking up the knife and fork, and
looking from one Queen to the other.

“Certainly not,” the Red Queen said, very decidedly: “it isn’t
etiquette to cut any one you’ve been introduced to. Remove the joint!”
And the waiters carried it off, and brought a large plum-pudding in its
place.

“I won’t be introduced to the pudding, please,” Alice said rather
hastily, “or we shall get no dinner at all. May I give you some?”

But the Red Queen looked sulky, and growled “Pudding—Alice;
Alice—Pudding. Remove the pudding!” and the waiters took it away so
quickly that Alice couldn’t return its bow.

However, she didn’t see why the Red Queen should be the only one to
give orders, so, as an experiment, she called out “Waiter! Bring back
the pudding!” and there it was again in a moment like a
conjuring-trick. It was so large that she couldn’t help feeling a
_little_ shy with it, as she had been with the mutton; however, she
conquered her shyness by a great effort and cut a slice and handed it
to the Red Queen.

“What impertinence!” said the Pudding. “I wonder how you’d like it, if
I were to cut a slice out of _you_, you creature!”

It spoke in a thick, suety sort of voice, and Alice hadn’t a word to
say in reply: she could only sit and look at it and gasp.

“Make a remark,” said the Red Queen: “it’s ridiculous to leave all the
conversation to the pudding!”

“Do you know, I’ve had such a quantity of poetry repeated to me
to-day,” Alice began, a little frightened at finding that, the moment
she opened her lips, there was dead silence, and all eyes were fixed
upon her; “and it’s a very curious thing, I think—every poem was about
fishes in some way. Do you know why they’re so fond of fishes, all
about here?”

She spoke to the Red Queen, whose answer was a little wide of the mark.
“As to fishes,” she said, very slowly and solemnly, putting her mouth
close to Alice’s ear, “her White Majesty knows a lovely riddle—all in
poetry—all about fishes. Shall she repeat it?”

“Her Red Majesty’s very kind to mention it,” the White Queen murmured
into Alice’s other ear, in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon. “It
would be _such_ a treat! May I?”

“Please do,” Alice said very politely.