And then (as Alice afterwards described it) all sorts of things
happened in a moment. The candles all grew up to the ceiling, looking
something like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top. As to the
bottles, they each took a pair of plates, which they hastily fitted on
as wings, and so, with forks for legs, went fluttering about in all
directions: “and very like birds they look,” Alice thought to herself,
as well as she could in the dreadful confusion that was beginning.

At this moment she heard a hoarse laugh at her side, and turned to see
what was the matter with the White Queen; but, instead of the Queen,
there was the leg of mutton sitting in the chair. “Here I am!” cried a
voice from the soup tureen, and Alice turned again, just in time to see
the Queen’s broad good-natured face grinning at her for a moment over
the edge of the tureen, before she disappeared into the soup.

There was not a moment to be lost. Already several of the guests were
lying down in the dishes, and the soup ladle was walking up the table
towards Alice’s chair, and beckoning to her impatiently to get out of
its way.

“I can’t stand this any longer!” she cried as she jumped up and seized
the table-cloth with both hands: one good pull, and plates, dishes,
guests, and candles came crashing down together in a heap on the floor.

“And as for _you_,” she went on, turning fiercely upon the Red Queen,
whom she considered as the cause of all the mischief—but the Queen was
no longer at her side—she had suddenly dwindled down to the size of a
little doll, and was now on the table, merrily running round and round
after her own shawl, which was trailing behind her.

At any other time, Alice would have felt surprised at this, but she was
far too much excited to be surprised at anything _now_. “As for _you_,”
she repeated, catching hold of the little creature in the very act of
jumping over a bottle which had just lighted upon the table, “I’ll
shake you into a kitten, that I will!”

CHAPTER X.
Shaking

She took her off the table as she spoke, and shook her backwards and
forwards with all her might.

The Red Queen made no resistance whatever; only her face grew very
small, and her eyes got large and green: and still, as Alice went on
shaking her, she kept on growing shorter—and fatter—and softer—and
rounder—and—

CHAPTER XI.
Waking

—and it really _was_ a kitten, after all.

CHAPTER XII.
Which Dreamed it?

“Your majesty shouldn’t purr so loud,” Alice said, rubbing her eyes,
and addressing the kitten, respectfully, yet with some severity. “You
woke me out of oh! such a nice dream! And you’ve been along with me,
Kitty—all through the Looking-Glass world. Did you know it, dear?”