“You must walk. It is a long journey, through a country that is
sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible. However, I will use
all the magic arts I know of to keep you from harm.”

“Won’t you go with me?” pleaded the girl, who had begun to look upon
the little old woman as her only friend.

“No, I cannot do that,” she replied, “but I will give you my kiss, and
no one will dare injure a person who has been kissed by the Witch of
the North.”

She came close to Dorothy and kissed her gently on the forehead. Where
her lips touched the girl they left a round, shining mark, as Dorothy
found out soon after.

“The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick,” said the
Witch, “so you cannot miss it. When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
him, but tell your story and ask him to help you. Good-bye, my dear.”

The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey,
after which they walked away through the trees. The Witch gave Dorothy
a friendly little nod, whirled around on her left heel three times, and
straightway disappeared, much to the surprise of little Toto, who
barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been
afraid even to growl while she stood by.

But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
in just that way, and was not surprised in the least.

Chapter III
How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow

When Dorothy was left alone she began to feel hungry. So she went to
the cupboard and cut herself some bread, which she spread with butter.
She gave some to Toto, and taking a pail from the shelf she carried it
down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.
Toto ran over to the trees and began to bark at the birds sitting
there. Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
she wanted to help out her breakfast.

Then she went back to the house, and having helped herself and Toto to
a good drink of the cool, clear water, she set about making ready for
the journey to the City of Emeralds.

Dorothy had only one other dress, but that happened to be clean and was
hanging on a peg beside her bed. It was gingham, with checks of white
and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
it was still a pretty frock. The girl washed herself carefully, dressed
herself in the clean gingham, and tied her pink sunbonnet on her head.
She took a little basket and filled it with bread from the cupboard,
laying a white cloth over the top. Then she looked down at her feet and
noticed how old and worn her shoes were.