“‘Why, he is a man,’ said the other, and I quite agreed with him. The
farmer carried me under his arm to the cornfield, and set me up on a
tall stick, where you found me. He and his friend soon after walked
away and left me alone.

“I did not like to be deserted this way. So I tried to walk after them.
But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay on
that pole. It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think of,
having been made such a little while before. Many crows and other birds
flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew away
again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me feel
that I was quite an important person. By and by an old crow flew near
me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder and
said:

“‘I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner. Any
crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.’ Then he
hopped down at my feet and ate all the corn he wanted. The other birds,
seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too, so in a short
time there was a great flock of them about me.

“I felt sad at this, for it showed I was not such a good Scarecrow
after all; but the old crow comforted me, saying, ‘If you only had
brains in your head you would be as good a man as any of them, and a
better man than some of them. Brains are the only things worth having
in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.’

“After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try
hard to get some brains. By good luck you came along and pulled me off
the stake, and from what you say I am sure the Great Oz will give me
brains as soon as we get to the Emerald City.”

“I hope so,” said Dorothy earnestly, “since you seem anxious to have
them.”

“Oh, yes; I am anxious,” returned the Scarecrow. “It is such an
uncomfortable feeling to know one is a fool.”

“Well,” said the girl, “let us go.” And she handed the basket to the
Scarecrow.

There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough
and untilled. Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the
trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the
road of yellow brick. It was almost dark under the trees, for the
branches shut out the daylight; but the travelers did not stop, and
went on into the forest.

“If this road goes in, it must come out,” said the Scarecrow, “and as
the Emerald City is at the other end of the road, we must go wherever
it leads us.”