“Anyone would know that,” said Dorothy.

“Certainly; that is why I know it,” returned the Scarecrow. “If it
required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it.”

After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves
stumbling along in the darkness. Dorothy could not see at all, but Toto
could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow
declared he could see as well as by day. So she took hold of his arm
and managed to get along fairly well.

“If you see any house, or any place where we can pass the night,” she
said, “you must tell me; for it is very uncomfortable walking in the
dark.”

Soon after the Scarecrow stopped.

“I see a little cottage at the right of us,” he said, “built of logs
and branches. Shall we go there?”

“Yes, indeed,” answered the child. “I am all tired out.”

So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the
cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one
corner. She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into a
sound sleep. The Scarecrow, who was never tired, stood up in another
corner and waited patiently until morning came.

Chapter V
The Rescue of the Tin Woodman

When Dorothy awoke the sun was shining through the trees and Toto had
long been out chasing birds around him and squirrels. She sat up and
looked around her. There was the Scarecrow, still standing patiently in
his corner, waiting for her.

“We must go and search for water,” she said to him.

“Why do you want water?” he asked.

“To wash my face clean after the dust of the road, and to drink, so the
dry bread will not stick in my throat.”

“It must be inconvenient to be made of flesh,” said the Scarecrow
thoughtfully, “for you must sleep, and eat and drink. However, you have
brains, and it is worth a lot of bother to be able to think properly.”

They left the cottage and walked through the trees until they found a
little spring of clear water, where Dorothy drank and bathed and ate
her breakfast. She saw there was not much bread left in the basket, and
the girl was thankful the Scarecrow did not have to eat anything, for
there was scarcely enough for herself and Toto for the day.

When she had finished her meal, and was about to go back to the road of
yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan near by.

“What was that?” she asked timidly.

“I cannot imagine,” replied the Scarecrow; “but we can go and see.”

Just then another groan reached their ears, and the sound seemed to
come from behind them. They turned and walked through the forest a few
steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine
that fell between the trees. She ran to the place and then stopped
short, with a little cry of surprise.