One of the big trees had been partly chopped through, and standing
beside it, with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a man made entirely
of tin. His head and arms and legs were jointed upon his body, but he
stood perfectly motionless, as if he could not stir at all.

Dorothy looked at him in amazement, and so did the Scarecrow, while
Toto barked sharply and made a snap at the tin legs, which hurt his
teeth.

“Did you groan?” asked Dorothy.

“Yes,” answered the tin man, “I did. I’ve been groaning for more than a
year, and no one has ever heard me before or come to help me.”

“What can I do for you?” she inquired softly, for she was moved by the
sad voice in which the man spoke.

“Get an oil-can and oil my joints,” he answered. “They are rusted so
badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon
be all right again. You will find an oil-can on a shelf in my cottage.”

Dorothy at once ran back to the cottage and found the oil-can, and then
she returned and asked anxiously, “Where are your joints?”

“Oil my neck, first,” replied the Tin Woodman. So she oiled it, and as
it was quite badly rusted the Scarecrow took hold of the tin head and
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the
man could turn it himself.

“Now oil the joints in my arms,” he said. And Dorothy oiled them and
the Scarecrow bent them carefully until they were quite free from rust
and as good as new.

The Tin Woodman gave a sigh of satisfaction and lowered his axe, which
he leaned against the tree.

“This is a great comfort,” he said. “I have been holding that axe in
the air ever since I rusted, and I’m glad to be able to put it down at
last. Now, if you will oil the joints of my legs, I shall be all right
once more.”

So they oiled his legs until he could move them freely; and he thanked
them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite
creature, and very grateful.

“I might have stood there always if you had not come along,” he said;
“so you have certainly saved my life. How did you happen to be here?”

“We are on our way to the Emerald City to see the Great Oz,” she
answered, “and we stopped at your cottage to pass the night.”

“Why do you wish to see Oz?” he asked.

“I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to
put a few brains into his head,” she replied.

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment. Then he said:

“Do you suppose Oz could give me a heart?”

“Why, I guess so,” Dorothy answered. “It would be as easy as to give
the Scarecrow brains.”