In front of them, and at the end of the road of yellow brick, was a big
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even
the painted eyes of the Scarecrow were dazzled by their brilliancy.

There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and
heard a silvery tinkle sound within. Then the big gate swung slowly
open, and they all passed through and found themselves in a high arched
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.

Before them stood a little man about the same size as the Munchkins. He
was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his skin
was of a greenish tint. At his side was a large green box.

When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, “What do you wish
in the Emerald City?”

“We came here to see the Great Oz,” said Dorothy.

The man was so surprised at this answer that he sat down to think it
over.

“It has been many years since anyone asked me to see Oz,” he said,
shaking his head in perplexity. “He is powerful and terrible, and if
you come on an idle or foolish errand to bother the wise reflections of
the Great Wizard, he might be angry and destroy you all in an instant.”

“But it is not a foolish errand, nor an idle one,” replied the
Scarecrow; “it is important. And we have been told that Oz is a good
Wizard.”

“So he is,” said the green man, “and he rules the Emerald City wisely
and well. But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from
curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
face. I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the
Great Oz I must take you to his Palace. But first you must put on the
spectacles.”

“Why?” asked Dorothy.

“Because if you did not wear spectacles the brightness and glory of the
Emerald City would blind you. Even those who live in the City must wear
spectacles night and day. They are all locked on, for Oz so ordered it
when the City was first built, and I have the only key that will unlock
them.”

He opened the big box, and Dorothy saw that it was filled with
spectacles of every size and shape. All of them had green glasses in
them. The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit
Dorothy and put them over her eyes. There were two golden bands
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they
were locked together by a little key that was at the end of a chain the
Guardian of the Gates wore around his neck. When they were on, Dorothy
could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish
to be blinded by the glare of the Emerald City, so she said nothing.