She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others. These she also led
to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant
part of the Palace. Of course this politeness was wasted on the
Scarecrow; for when he found himself alone in his room he stood
stupidly in one spot, just within the doorway, to wait till morning. It
would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so he
remained all night staring at a little spider which was weaving its web
in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
wonderful rooms in the world. The Tin Woodman lay down on his bed from
force of habit, for he remembered when he was made of flesh; but not
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down
to make sure they kept in good working order. The Lion would have
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so
he sprang upon the bed and rolled himself up like a cat and purred
himself asleep in a minute.

The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch
Dorothy, and she dressed her in one of the prettiest gowns, made of
green brocaded satin. Dorothy put on a green silk apron and tied a
green ribbon around Toto’s neck, and they started for the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

First they came to a great hall in which were many ladies and gentlemen
of the court, all dressed in rich costumes. These people had nothing to
do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see
Oz. As Dorothy entered they looked at her curiously, and one of them
whispered:

“Are you really going to look upon the face of Oz the Terrible?”

“Of course,” answered the girl, “if he will see me.”

“Oh, he will see you,” said the soldier who had taken her message to
the Wizard, “although he does not like to have people ask to see him.
Indeed, at first he was angry and said I should send you back where you
came from. Then he asked me what you looked like, and when I mentioned
your silver shoes he was very much interested. At last I told him about
the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to his
presence.”

Just then a bell rang, and the green girl said to Dorothy, “That is the
signal. You must go into the Throne Room alone.”