“I am only a Scarecrow, stuffed with straw. Therefore I have no brains,
and I come to you praying that you will put brains in my head instead
of straw, so that I may become as much a man as any other in your
dominions.”

“Why should I do this for you?” asked the Lady.

“Because you are wise and powerful, and no one else can help me,”
answered the Scarecrow.

“I never grant favors without some return,” said Oz; “but this much I
will promise. If you will kill for me the Wicked Witch of the West, I
will bestow upon you a great many brains, and such good brains that you
will be the wisest man in all the Land of Oz.”

“I thought you asked Dorothy to kill the Witch,” said the Scarecrow, in
surprise.

“So I did. I don’t care who kills her. But until she is dead I will not
grant your wish. Now go, and do not seek me again until you have earned
the brains you so greatly desire.”

The Scarecrow went sorrowfully back to his friends and told them what
Oz had said; and Dorothy was surprised to find that the Great Wizard
was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.

“All the same,” said the Scarecrow, “she needs a heart as much as the
Tin Woodman.”

On the next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the Tin
Woodman and said:

“Oz has sent for you. Follow me.”

So the Tin Woodman followed him and came to the great Throne Room. He
did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
hoped it would be the lovely Lady. “For,” he said to himself, “if it is
the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has no
heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me. But if it is the
lovely Lady I shall beg hard for a heart, for all ladies are themselves
said to be kindly hearted.”

But when the Woodman entered the great Throne Room he saw neither the
Head nor the Lady, for Oz had taken the shape of a most terrible Beast.
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
strong enough to hold its weight. The Beast had a head like that of a
rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face. There were five long
arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim legs.
Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more
dreadful-looking monster could not be imagined. It was fortunate the
Tin Woodman had no heart at that moment, for it would have beat loud
and fast from terror. But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all
afraid, although he was much disappointed.