“Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you
do not I will make an end of you, as I did of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow.”

Dorothy followed her through many of the beautiful rooms in her castle
until they came to the kitchen, where the Witch bade her clean the pots
and kettles and sweep the floor and keep the fire fed with wood.

Dorothy went to work meekly, with her mind made up to work as hard as
she could; for she was glad the Wicked Witch had decided not to kill
her.

With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
courtyard and harness the Cowardly Lion like a horse; it would amuse
her, she was sure, to make him draw her chariot whenever she wished to
go to drive. But as she opened the gate the Lion gave a loud roar and
bounded at her so fiercely that the Witch was afraid, and ran out and
shut the gate again.

“If I cannot harness you,” said the Witch to the Lion, speaking through
the bars of the gate, “I can starve you. You shall have nothing to eat
until you do as I wish.”

So after that she took no food to the imprisoned Lion; but every day
she came to the gate at noon and asked, “Are you ready to be harnessed
like a horse?”

And the Lion would answer, “No. If you come in this yard, I will bite
you.”

The reason the Lion did not have to do as the Witch wished was that
every night, while the woman was asleep, Dorothy carried him food from
the cupboard. After he had eaten he would lie down on his bed of straw,
and Dorothy would lie beside him and put her head on his soft, shaggy
mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some way to
escape. But they could find no way to get out of the castle, for it was
constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the slaves of the
Wicked Witch and too afraid of her not to do as she told them.

The girl had to work hard during the day, and often the Witch
threatened to beat her with the same old umbrella she always carried in
her hand. But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because of
the mark upon her forehead. The child did not know this, and was full
of fear for herself and Toto. Once the Witch struck Toto a blow with
her umbrella and the brave little dog flew at her and bit her leg in
return. The Witch did not bleed where she was bitten, for she was so
wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.