Dorothy’s life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would
be harder than ever to get back to Kansas and Aunt Em again. Sometimes
she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
his little mistress. Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas
or the Land of Oz so long as Dorothy was with him; but he knew the
little girl was unhappy, and that made him unhappy too.

Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
Shoes which the girl always wore. Her bees and her crows and her wolves
were lying in heaps and drying up, and she had used up all the power of
the Golden Cap; but if she could only get hold of the Silver Shoes,
they would give her more power than all the other things she had lost.
She watched Dorothy carefully, to see if she ever took off her shoes,
thinking she might steal them. But the child was so proud of her pretty
shoes that she never took them off except at night and when she took
her bath. The Witch was too much afraid of the dark to dare go in
Dorothy’s room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water was
greater than her fear of the dark, so she never came near when Dorothy
was bathing. Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor ever let
water touch her in any way.

But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
trick that would give her what she wanted. She placed a bar of iron in
the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the
iron invisible to human eyes. So that when Dorothy walked across the
floor she stumbled over the bar, not being able to see it, and fell at
full length. She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
Shoes came off; and before she could reach it, the Witch had snatched
it away and put it on her own skinny foot.

The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
charm, and Dorothy could not use it against her, even had she known how
to do so.

The little girl, seeing she had lost one of her pretty shoes, grew
angry, and said to the Witch, “Give me back my shoe!”

“I will not,” retorted the Witch, “for it is now my shoe, and not
yours.”

“You are a wicked creature!” cried Dorothy. “You have no right to take
my shoe from me.”

“I shall keep it, just the same,” said the Witch, laughing at her, “and
someday I shall get the other one from you, too.”