“That would make me very unhappy,” answered the china Princess. “You
see, here in our country we live contentedly, and can talk and move
around as we please. But whenever any of us are taken away our joints
at once stiffen, and we can only stand straight and look pretty. Of
course that is all that is expected of us when we are on mantels and
cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
here in our own country.”

“I would not make you unhappy for all the world!” exclaimed Dorothy.
“So I’ll just say good-bye.”

“Good-bye,” replied the Princess.

They walked carefully through the china country. The little animals and
all the people scampered out of their way, fearing the strangers would
break them, and after an hour or so the travelers reached the other
side of the country and came to another china wall.

It was not so high as the first, however, and by standing upon the
Lion’s back they all managed to scramble to the top. Then the Lion
gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
jumped, he upset a china church with his tail and smashed it all to
pieces.

“That was too bad,” said Dorothy, “but really I think we were lucky in
not doing these little people more harm than breaking a cow’s leg and a
church. They are all so brittle!”

“They are, indeed,” said the Scarecrow, “and I am thankful I am made of
straw and cannot be easily damaged. There are worse things in the world
than being a Scarecrow.”

Chapter XXI
The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts

After climbing down from the china wall the travelers found themselves
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with
tall, rank grass. It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy
holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight. However,
by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until they
reached solid ground. But here the country seemed wilder than ever, and
after a long and tiresome walk through the underbrush they entered
another forest, where the trees were bigger and older than any they had
ever seen.

“This forest is perfectly delightful,” declared the Lion, looking
around him with joy. “Never have I seen a more beautiful place.”

“It seems gloomy,” said the Scarecrow.

“Not a bit of it,” answered the Lion. “I should like to live here all
my life. See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how rich
and green the moss is that clings to these old trees. Surely no wild
beast could wish a pleasanter home.”

“Perhaps there are wild beasts in the forest now,” said Dorothy.

“I suppose there are,” returned the Lion, “but I do not see any of them
about.”