“Willingly!” exclaimed Dorothy; “indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the Winged Monkeys three times.”

“And I think I shall need their service just those three times,”
answered Glinda, smiling.

Dorothy then gave her the Golden Cap, and the Witch said to the
Scarecrow, “What will you do when Dorothy has left us?”

“I will return to the Emerald City,” he replied, “for Oz has made me
its ruler and the people like me. The only thing that worries me is how
to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads.”

“By means of the Golden Cap I shall command the Winged Monkeys to carry
you to the gates of the Emerald City,” said Glinda, “for it would be a
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler.”

“Am I really wonderful?” asked the Scarecrow.

“You are unusual,” replied Glinda.

Turning to the Tin Woodman, she asked, “What will become of you when
Dorothy leaves this country?”

He leaned on his axe and thought a moment. Then he said, “The Winkies
were very kind to me, and wanted me to rule over them after the Wicked
Witch died. I am fond of the Winkies, and if I could get back again to
the Country of the West, I should like nothing better than to rule over
them forever.”

“My second command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda “will be that
they carry you safely to the land of the Winkies. Your brain may not be
so large to look at as those of the Scarecrow, but you are really
brighter than he is—when you are well polished—and I am sure you will
rule the Winkies wisely and well.”

Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, “When Dorothy
has returned to her own home, what will become of you?”

“Over the hill of the Hammer-Heads,” he answered, “lies a grand old
forest, and all the beasts that live there have made me their King. If
I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily
there.”

“My third command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda, “shall be to
carry you to your forest. Then, having used up the powers of the Golden
Cap, I shall give it to the King of the Monkeys, that he and his band
may thereafter be free for evermore.”

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good
Witch earnestly for her kindness; and Dorothy exclaimed:

“You are certainly as good as you are beautiful! But you have not yet
told me how to get back to Kansas.”

“Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert,” replied Glinda. “If
you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em the
very first day you came to this country.”

“But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!” cried the
Scarecrow. “I might have passed my whole life in the farmer’s
cornfield.”