I am very fond of babies. One reason of it, I think, is, that they
cannot hurt me with their little hands. They pull my ears, but not so
hard as to give me pain.

Once, on a hot day, when my mouth was open, and my tongue was out, Dot
took hold of my tongue, and pulled it as hard as he could. I did not
even say _Bow-wow_. I let him pull away.

I would have all people know that this baby is not to be touched while
I am here. If you come near to disturb baby, I shall bark; but, if you
try to touch him, I shall bite. So be careful. You must not even touch
baby's rattle that lies on the floor.

I hear my mistress tell people what a good dog I am, and how she can
trust me to take care of baby. Yes, I am proud to say I do my duty. I
hold my head up, and keep my eyes wide open. That drawing of me is from
a photograph, and is a very good likeness. As I can't write, I have got
Master John to write this down for me.

MASTER JOHN.

THE PARROT FEEDING ITS YOUNG.

The parrot is a curious bird. Here is a picture of one feeding its
young. It has a large hooked beak, and climbs trees by the aid of its
beak and feet.

The plumage of parrots varies in color. I have seen it of a bright
green, also, red and gray. These birds were well known to the ancient
Greeks and Romans, who got them mostly from India and Africa.

The parrot, as every child knows, can be taught to talk. This power it
shares with some other birds whose tongues are thick, round, and almost
the same in form as that of the parrot. Starlings, blackbirds, jays,
jackdaws, and ravens can imitate the human voice.

The parrot imitates all the noises it hears--the mewing of cats, the
barking of dogs, and the cries of birds--as easily as it imitates
speech. The parrots brought from Africa seem to prefer imitating the
voices of children, and, on that account, more easily receive their
education from them.

But the gray parrot imitates the grave tones of older persons. A parrot
from Guinea, taught on the voyage by an old sailor, had caught up his
hoarse voice and cough perfectly. Afterwards, owned and taught by a
young girl, it did not forget the lessons of its first master. It was
amusing to hear this bird pass from a soft, girlish voice to his hoarse
and sailor-like tone.

Not only has the parrot the power of imitating the human voice, but it
or sounds that no one has taken the trouble to teach it.