A parrot which had grown old with its master, and shared with him the
pains of old age, being used to hear but little more than the words, "I
am very ill," when asked, "What is the matter, Polly?" answered in a
dismal tone, and stretching itself, "I am very ill."

The language of the parrot is not wanting in ideas. When you ask one if
it has breakfasted, it knows well how to answer you, if it has satisfied
its hunger. It will not tell you that it has breakfasted when this is
not the case: at least, you cannot force it to say "No" when it ought to
say "Yes."

I have heard of a parrot, which, when pleased, would laugh most
heartily, and then cry out, "Don't make me laugh so! I shall die, I
shall die." The bird would also mimic sobbing, and exclaim, "So bad, so
bad! got such a cold!" If any one happened to cough, the parrot would
remark, "What a bad cold!"

UNCLE CHARLES.

*       *       *       *       *

*       *       *       *       *

LITTLE RUTH'S PRAYER.

Stormy and chilly had been the day;
    Drifts of snow on the sidewalk lay:
    All who were out in the wintry street
    Went shivering on with rapid feet;
    And some were poor, and thinly clad,
    And wished that a good warm home they had.

But, gloomy without, it was bright within,
    Merry had been her thoughts and plays;
    She had dressed her dolls for a fancy ball,
    And read her story-books one and all.

But when, at the close of the happy day,
    She knelt, her one little prayer to say,
    She thought of the hungry, perishing poor,
    Of the children who cold and sorrow endure,
    And, laying her head on her mother's knee,
    Said, "Give them, O Father, _all_ you give _me_!"

DORA BURNSIDE.

ARTHUR'S MISHAP.

I am a little boy, three years old, named Arthur; and I want to tell you
what happened to me last summer.

I went down to the seashore to visit my grandmamma, alone, without
mamma, or Mary, my nurse. Grandpapa took me in the cars, and I staid
almost a week. I had a good time; for they have horses and cows and pigs
and chickens, and a swing.

One day, Aunt Anna and I went to the duck-pond. I had a rod and line,
and made believe fish. Aunt Anna turned away for a minute, and, when she
looked around, all she could see of me was my hat, floating on the
water. I had tumbled in, and was way down at the bottom of the pond.

But I soon rose to the top; and Aunt Anna reached over, and pulled me
out, and ran up to the house with me in her arms. I did not cry at all,
but coughed and sputtered a little, and told her I didn't like that old
duck-pond.