One day, to his great delight, Bernard received a letter from his
    father, telling him that John was also to be sent to America, and
    that he would take passage from Marseilles by the first vessel bound
    for Boston.

At that time there were no steamships and no regular packets from
    Europe. The only way of coming was by a merchant-vessel. So Bernard,
    who was looking and longing for the arrival of his brother, did not
    think it strange when six weeks passed away without bringing him.
    But when two months passed, and he did not appear, poor Bernard
    began to be anxious. Four months, five months, six months, passed.
    Nothing was heard of John. Not a word came from Mr. Trainier. More
    than a year passed away, and still there was no news. Bernard was in
    despair.

One August day (it must have been, I think, in the year 1805), when
    my father had occasion to visit Boston, he took Bernard with him;
    and, while there, went with him to call on Mr. Duprez, from whom
    they hoped to hear some good news.

But there was no comfort for poor Bernard in what Mr. Duprez had to
    tell. He had learned from friends in Toulon that Mr. Trainier, soon
    after sending his youngest son to America, had gone to St. Domingo
    to look after some estates. St. Domingo was then in a state of
    insurrection. The slaves had risen against their masters. When last
    heard from, Mr. Trainier had been taken prisoner, and it was feared
    that he had been put to death. As to John Trainier, all that could
    be learned was that he had been put on board a vessel bound from
    Marseilles to Boston, but the name of the vessel or what had become
    of her nobody knew.

You may imagine the distress of Bernard at hearing this, and how sad
    my father was when he took the poor boy's hand to return with him to
    Hingham. The packet station was at the head of Long Wharf. They
    reached it long before the vessel was ready to sail: so, to pass
    away the time, they walked slowly down the wharf,--my father still
    holding Bernard by the hand. They stopped a few minutes at the end
    of the wharf, then walked back again.

They had got about half way up the wharf when they heard a shout
    behind them. They looked around. The voice seemed to come from the
    water side. As they looked, a boy about eleven years old, dressed in
    rough sailor-clothes, jumped ashore from a brig at the wharf, and
    came running towards them, calling, "Bernard! Bernard!" again and
    again.

Bernard stood a moment as if amazed; then, suddenly letting go of my
    father's hand, he gave a cry of joy, sprang forward and caught the
    little sailor in his arms. It was his brother John.