What is that little girl doing in the central part of the picture? She
is making a present of a sack to her good old nurse, who now has a baby
of her own. The sack is for the baby. How glad they all are--the mother,
the aunt, and the little boy, who, I think, must be the baby's brother!

As for the Christmas feast at the South, it may be very much like that
at the North. In the picture we get a glimpse of a roast pig and a plum
pudding. There is often a wild turkey and a plenty of other game.

"But is there a Christmas-tree? And does Santa Claus come with his
trinkets, and his picture-books, as at the North?" Yes, in many families
there is a Christmas tree, and Santa Claus does not forget that there
are little children at the South also.

In the evening, the little ones play blind-man's-bluff, or
hunt-the-slipper. Sometimes Jack Frost steals down from the North, and
pinches them. But he does not stay long. He likes his northern home
best.

UNCLE HARRY.

THE CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.

Mr. D. had promised to give his wife a beautiful rattan rocking-chair as
a Christmas present. It was his employment to sell these articles. In
due time, Mrs. D. called at his place of business, and selected a chair;
but, as she sat enjoying it for a few minutes, a new idea came into her
mind, and she told her husband that she would gladly do without her
present, if he would give Jennie and Alice (their two little daughters)
each a chair.

Her husband agreed to this; and on Christmas Eve he took home with him
two elegant little rocking-chairs. Leaving them in his garden, he went
in to tea, and, after taking his seat at the table, said to his
children, "I have a story to tell you, and it is a true story. Would you
like to hear it?"

Of course they were all eager to do so. So he said, "There was a lady in
my store to-day, whose husband had promised to make her a Christmas
present of a rocking-chair. After she had selected a very nice one, she
turned to her husband, and said, 'If you will give each of our children
a chair, I will forego the pleasure of having mine.' Now, wasn't she
truly kind?"

The children were much interested in the story; and both exclaimed,
"Yes, sir!" Then he added, "I liked the lady very much."

Here, little Alice, growing slightly jealous, exclaimed, "Did you like
her better than you do mamma?"

"Oh, no! not _better_, but _full as well_," answered her father.

After supper, the chairs were brought in, much to the surprise and
delight of Jennie and Alice, who both joyfully exclaimed, "O papa! you
meant us!"

D.

THE PROPER TIME.