"Good-by, Old Year!" "Good by, good-by!" he replies, as he goes out into
the cold and snow. "Be good children!" "Who comes? who comes?" "This is
I, the glad New Year!" "What have you brought?" "A plenty of good
wishes. Oh! you must all be good children!"

A MORNING CALL.

Baby Nan has company,
      Baby Nell has come a-calling
    In her carriage riding gay:
      Nan sits on a great soft shawl
      With two pillows, lest she fall.
    Nan, here's little Nell come calling!
      Haven't you a word to say?
    "_Gar goo, ghee! gar ghee, argoo!_"
    Nell, she's saying, "How d'ye do?"

Pillows bring for baby Nell;
      On the soft shawl seat her grandly,
    With her mouth set rose-bud way,
      And her grave blue eyes surveying
      This strange room she's so astray in.
    Nell, dear Nell, don't cry! see Nannie!
      Haven't you a word to say?
    "_Ar-goo, dah, dah! dah dah, goo!_"
    "I am pretty well, are you?"

Baby Nan has not a fear;
      Up and down her small fists flying,
    Bright eyes dancing, laughing gay!
      Nell, she's showing you her socks;
      Now she shakes her rattlebox;
    Hands and feet she keeps a-flying;
      She has something more to say:
    "_Bab, bab, bab! kee-ee, bab, er!_"
    I cannot interpret her.

Baby Nell can. See her laugh!
      Forth her dimpled hand she stretches.
    Pass your rattle, Nan, that way;
      She, you see, can shake it too.
      Now look out, she's seizing you;
    Eagerly your toes she reaches!
      Both the baby voices say,
    "_Goo, goo, bab, bab! argoo ghee!_"
    They're great friends so soon, you see.

They have secrets, Nell and Nan,
      Laugh and coo, and crow together;
    Nan wants Nell to stop all day
      Playing with her on the shawl.
      Must she go? How short the call!
    Come again this sunny weather.
      Hear the little darling say,
    "_Argoo, kee ee! gar goo, gay!_"
    Shake your hand, Nan, too, "_Day-day!_"

MARY L. BOLLES BRANCH.

"HE DID IT FIRST."

There were once two sheep who lived in a field. One was black, and one
was white. In the same field lived a horse and a cow. Now, the black
sheep was not at all good. But, where he chose to go, the white sheep
would go; and, what he did the white sheep would do.

So they both did what they ought not. And when the white sheep was asked
why he did what he ought not, he would say, "The black sheep did it
first!" One day, a boy went through the field, and did not shut the
gate. The black sheep saw it, and ran out of the field with great glee.
The white sheep saw it too, and they both went some way.

But soon they met a large dog, who knew that they ought not to be out in
the road. He ran at them, and bit them, and tore some wool off their
backs. They were glad to run back to the field; and the white sheep was
quite ill with fright all the rest of the day.