"But why did you go?" said the old cow. "The black sheep went," said the
white one. "He did it first."

Well, the gate was shut; but one day the black sheep found a way out of
the field through a hole in the fence. He crept through the gap; and, of
course, the white sheep crept through as well. They got out on the moor,
and thought it fine fun to be there, with no one in sight.

Soon the black sheep, who was first, came to the edge of a deep pit. He
gave a great jump, and leaped in.

The white sheep did not stop to think. He gave a great jump, and leaped
in too. Down, down, down he fell, on to a heap of great sharp stones.
Both he and the black sheep were much hurt. They could not get out, and
were forced to lie there in great pain. By and by some men came by, and
saw the sheep in the pit. The men got them out, and took them back to
the field, and sent for some one to see what could be done for them.

The horse and the cow, in great grief, came and stood by the side of the
white sheep as he lay on the grass. They were fond of him in spite of
all his faults. "Oh, why!" cried the cow, with tears in her eyes (and
the bell that was hung round her neck shook and rang as she leaned over
him),--"why did you leave the field with the black sheep?"

"He did it first," said the white one in a faint voice.

"Then why did you jump down that steep place? Could you not see that it
was a pit?"

"I did not stop to see. He did it first," said the white sheep. Then,
with a groan, he went on to ask, "How _is_ the black sheep? Is he here
too? And what does the man think who comes to see us?"

"I grieve to say," said the cow, "that he thought you were both far too
much hurt to live. The poor black sheep has just died, and I fear that
you must die too."

"He did it first," said the white sheep. And with those words he died.

AUTHOR OF "DICK AND I."

THE CATS AND THE MOUSE.

T. CRAMPTON.

1. All the cats con-sult-ed,
       What was it a-bout?
       How to catch a lit-tle mouse
       Running in and out.
       The cat with the black nose,
       She made this re-mark;--
       I will eat the mouse up,
       Be-cause my nose is dark.

2. Pus-sy with the long claws,
       Curl'd with pride her lip--
       You can on-ly snip snap;
       I'm the one to grip,
       And I'll stretch my long claws,
       And hold mous-ey tight;
       Then within my strong jaws,
       Whisk him out of sight.