ONE fine summer day a very hungry fox sallied out in search of his
dinner. After a while his eye rested on a young rooster, which he
thought would make a very good meal: so he lay down under a wall and hid
himself in the high grass, intending to wait until the rooster got near
enough, and then to spring on him, and carry him off.

Suddenly, however, the rooster saw him and flew, in a great fright, to
the top of the wall.

The fox could not get him there, and he knew it: so he came out from his
hiding-place, and addressed the rooster thus: "Dear me!" he cried, "how
handsomely you are dressed! I came to invite your magnificence to a
grand christening feast. The duck and the goose have promised to come,
and the turkey, though slightly ill, will try to come also.

"You see that only those of rank are bidden to this feast, and we beg
you to adorn it with your splendid talent for music. We are to have the
most delicate little cock-chafers served up on toast, a delicious salad
of earthworms, in fact all manner of good things. Will you not return
then with me to my house?"

"Oh ho!" said the rooster, "how kind you are! What fine stories you
tell! Still I think it safest to decline your kind invitation. I am
sorry not to go to that splendid feast; but I cannot leave my wife, for
she is sitting on seven new eggs. Good-by! I hope you will relish those
earthworms. Don't come too near me, or I will crow for the dogs.
Good-by!"

LEONORA, from the German.

ROSIE AND THE PIGS.

ROSIE was breakfasting out on the grass
    When two pigs, on a walking tour, happened to pass.
    One pig, with rude manners, came boldly in front,
    And first gave a stare, and then gave a grunt,
    As much as to say, "What is that you have got?
    Just give us a taste, my dear, out of your pot!"

T.

ZIP COON.

DID you ever see a raccoon? I am going to tell you about one that was
sent from the South as a present to a lady whose name was Isabella. He
was called Zip Coon, and a very wise coon he was.

Zip had a long, low body, covered with stiff yellowish hair. His nose
was pointed, and his eyes were bright as buttons. His paws were regular
little hands, and he used them just like hands.

He was very tame. He would climb up on Isabella's chair, and scramble to
her shoulder. Then he would comb her hair with his fingers, pick at her
ear-rings, and feel of her collar and pin and buttons.