Isabella's mother was quite ill, but sometimes was able to sit in her
chair and eat her dinner from a tray on her lap. She liked to have Zip
in her room; but, if left alone with her, Zip would jump up in the
chair behind her, and try to crowd her off. He would reach around, too,
under her arm, and steal things from her tray.

Once the cook in the kitchen heard a brisk rattling of tin pans in the
pantry. She opened the door, and there, on a shelf, was Zip. There were
two pans standing side by side. One had Indian-meal in it, and the other
nice sweet milk. In front of the pans stood Zippy.

He had scooped the meal from one pan into the milk in the other pan, and
was stirring up a pudding with all his might. He looked over his
shoulder when he heard the cook coming up behind him, and worked away
all the faster, as if to get the pudding done before he was snatched up,
and put out of the pantry.

Zip was very neat and clean. He loved to have a bowl of water and piece
of soap set down for his own use. He would take the soap in his hands,
dip it into the water, and rub it between his palms; then he would reach
all around his body, and wash himself. It was very funny to see him
reach way around, and wash his back.

One day, Isabella, not feeling well, was lying on her bed. Zippy was
playing around her in his usual way. Pretty soon he ran under the bed,
and was busy a long while reaching up, and pulling and picking at the
slats over his head. By and by he crawled out; and what do you think he
had between his teeth? A pretty little red coral ear-ring that Isabella
had lost several weeks before. Zip's bright eyes had spied it as he was
playing around under the bed. So you see Zip Coon did some good that
time.

When Zip grew older, he became so cross and snappish, that he had to be
chained up in the woodshed in front of his little house. On the door of
his house was printed in red letters, "Zip Coon: he bites."

HELEN MARR.

THE FUSS IN THE POULTRY-YARD.

THERE is no sign of a fuss to be seen in the picture. Little Ellen is
feeding a quiet old hen, and two or three younger ones are slowly coming
up to see what is going on. All is calm and serene.

But if we could look round a corner, and take a view of the other side
of the barnyard, we should see something quite exciting.

The trouble was made by three hens of foreign breed. They felt so proud
because they had big tufts on their heads, that they looked down on the
native barn-yard fowls. One old white hen they never cease to pick upon.