What I am going to tell happened one spring day. It was warm and
beautiful out, and the doors and windows of the house were left open for
the fresh air to circulate freely. Charley was turned into the
front-yard to nibble the green grass for a while. It must have seemed
good to him after eating straw and hay all winter.

He ate and ate until he had eaten all he wanted, and probably felt as
boys and girls sometimes do when they have room for nothing more, except
pie, or pudding, or whatever the dessert may be.

In the house dinner was over, and the table was waiting for Katy to come
from the kitchen to clear it off. The family had gone into the
sitting-room, and were busy talking about a ramble in the woods for
flowers, which had been promised us children for that afternoon.

All at once we heard the tramp of heavy feet passing through the hall
into the dining-room. "Run, Willy," said mother, "and see what is making
such a noise."

Willy ran out, and came back laughing so he could hardly speak. "It's
old Charley," said he. "He's in the dining-room." We all rushed to the
door, and, sure enough, there stood Charley by the table, eating what he
could find on the platters and children's plates.

Oh, how we all laughed to see him standing there, as sober as if it were
his own stall and manger! We were willing that Charley should have what
we had left; but it seemed hardly right that a horse should be in the
house; besides, we feared that he might push the dishes off.

So Willy took him by the mane, and led him out of the house. He went off
chewing what he had in his mouth, and nodding his head, as much as to
say, "That pie-crust and salt are pretty good. If you please, I'll call
again."

N. T. B.

PEET-WEET.[A]

SIR PEET-WEET and his little wife
      Live, yonder by the water's edge,
    A merry life, a busy life,
    A life of love, and not of strife,
      Close nestled in the sandy sedge,
    Where the great hungry billows gnaw:
      A fairy creature is Sir Peet;
    Such slender legs you never saw,
    Not larger than a barley-straw;
      Yet wind and wave are not so fleet.

While madam sits upon her eggs,--
      Four spotted eggs, a pair for each,--
    He loves to match his nimble legs
    Against the breaker as it drags
      The sand-drift up and down the beach.
    So fast behind the wave he trips,
      You hardly see his little feet;
    Below him, in the wet sand, slips
    His picture, and their toes touch tips,
      And their pink bills in kissing meet.