To see them chasing, you would say
      The giant Ocean and his pet
    Were let out for a holiday,
    Playing at "tag" as children play,
      And laughing at the fun they get.
    'Tis more than fun; the big bluff sea
      To his small friend brings savory meat:
    Peet dines, and hurries, full of glee,
    To set his faithful lady free,
      That she may run and dance and eat.

GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Peet-weet is the common name of the spotted Sandpiper, derived from
its note.

MORE ABOUT "PARLEY-VOO."

HOW a little boy came to be called by such a queer nickname as
"Parley-voo" was told in the March number of "The Nursery." This is a
story about the same boy.

"Where's Parley-voo?" asked aunt Tib one afternoon. "I haven't seen him
for a long time."

"Where can he be?" said mamma, looking concerned.

"Where _can_ he be?" echoed the French nurse, throwing down her sewing,
and going in search of him. "Where can he be? _Le m├ęchant!_" (She meant
"The naughty little boy.") Then she ran down the walk, calling out,
"Parley-voo, Parley-voo, Parley-voo!" But not a sound came back.

She went down the lane to the house of the tailoress, where Parley-voo
had sometimes been known to go. "Have you seen our little boy to-day?"
she asked anxiously of the tailoress, who sat at the window, making a
vest.

The tailoress looked up over her glasses, and laughed. "Why, yes: he's
here," said she; "and I don't know what his mother will say when she
sees him."

The nurse went up to the window, and looked in. There sat Parley-voo on
a little wooden cricket, and ever so much of his bright, pretty hair--as
much as he could get at--lay on the floor beside him.

When Parley-voo saw the nurse, he ran into a corner, and hid his face.
The poor nurse was so amazed, that she could hardly speak. How came the
child in such a plight?

The tailoress told the story as follows. She had gone out to pick some
peas in the garden, leaving her husband, a blind man, in the room with
Parley-voo. He heard the little boy about the room, and, fearing that he
might be in some mischief, told him that he "must not meddle."

But pretty soon the blind man heard the sound of shears going across the
table. Parley-voo was certainly doing something with the shears.

"Little boy, you must not meddle," said the blind man again. The noise
stopped. "Ah! the boy does not dare to disobey me," thought the blind
man.

All of a sudden the noise began again; but it was a very different
noise. It was not on the table. The shears went together every little
while with a sharp click.

The blind man felt very uneasy. "I do wish," he thought, "my wife would
come in and see what the little chap is up to."