To console himself, the blind man opened his snuff-box and took a pinch
of snuff. What do you think the little chap did? He slyly put in his
finger and thumb, and took a pinch too. And then how he did sneeze!

The tailoress heard him sneeze, and came in. She saw at once what had
been going on. Parley-voo had been cutting his hair.

"Oh, my!" exclaimed mamma, when the nurse brought him home.

"Dear, dear!" cried aunt Tib, "what a looking child!"

Then the _bonne_ told where she found him, and they looked at his hair,
and talked so much about it, that Parley-voo wished he could sink
through the floor out of sight. And he thought to himself that he would
never again touch any thing he had been told not to.

The nurse took him up to the nursery, and dressed him all fresh and nice
before his father came home. But the pretty yellow hair was two or three
months growing out.

ELIZABETH A. DAVIS.

BABY'S RIDE.

CLEAR the way all, move the playthings aside,
    Baby is having a glorious ride:
    See! from the hall he comes galloping in,
    Dimpled hands folded beneath papa's chin.

Golden curls flying, fat cheeks all aglow,
    Three pearly teeth peeping out in a row:
    Hark! how he crows, and laughs out in his glee!
    Never was baby more happy than he.

Now he goes trotting along to the town,
    Far away, far away, up hill and down;
    Back to mamma then as quick as he can,
    There's a good ride for papa's little man!

RUTH REVERE.

THE OLD PUMP.

THIS is the pump that stands in the field near our house. The well is
very deep, and the water is pure and cold. There is a trough at which
the cows and horses often come to drink.

Bridget goes to the pump two or three times a day to get a pail of
water. It is quite a task to bring it so far. But Bridget's arms are
quite strong. She takes all the care of the hens and cows and pigs.

T. S. R.

WINTER ON LAKE CONSTANCE.

THE Lake of Constance, which lies between Switzerland and Germany, is
seldom frozen over. The last time it was frozen was in December, 1879.
Before that, it had not been frozen over since 1829.

People came from far and near to see it and to skate on it. The lake was
black with skaters who were gliding over its surface.

Men, women, and children alike shared the fun. There had not been such
skating before for fifty years, and it is no wonder that they made the
most of it while it lasted.

In January a warm wind blew for two days: the huge masses of snow
melted, and the little brooks were once more set running down the
mountain-sides. But winter was soon back again with redoubled severity,
bringing fresh snow and severer frost, and thus keeping the lake frozen.