On Candlemas Day (the second day of February) there was a grand festival
on the ice. The peasants came from far and near. There were thousands of
them there. In the evening there was a grand illumination, and after
that there were fireworks, and then a dance on the ice.

In summer the water of Lake Constance is of a dark green color. The
River Rhine enters it at the western end, and flows out at the eastern
end. The lake is about forty-four miles long and nine miles wide.

The view of the frozen lake from the mountains is said to have been very
fine. As you looked down on its smooth glittering surface, the skaters
moving over it appeared like mere specks, while the houses in the
village were like doll-houses.

LEONORA, from the German.

SWAN-UPPING.

HERE we have a picture that tells its own story. It reminds me of some
swans in my native island, England, and of a curious custom called
"swan-upping."

Some miles from London, on one of the most beautiful parts of the River
Thames, a great number of swans are kept, which are owned by the Dyers'
and Vintners' Companies.

The owners value them so highly, and take such care of them, that they
have about as nice a time as any birds could wish to have. I fancy that
these Thames swans hold their heads higher, and feel prouder, than any
other swans in England.

They build their nests in the osier-beds, by the side of the river, but
out of the reach of the water. These nests are compact, handsome
structures, formed of osiers, or reeds.

Every pair of swans has its own walk, or district, within which no
other swans are permitted to build. Every pair has a keeper appointed to
take the entire charge of them.

The keeper receives a small sum for every cygnet that is reared; and it
is his duty to see that the nest is not disturbed. Sometimes he helps
these lordly birds by building the foundation of the nest for them.

Once a year, in August, the swans are counted and marked. This is called
"swan-upping," and a good time it used to be. In gayly decorated barges,
with flags flying, and music playing, the city authorities came up the
river to take up the swans and mark them.

The "upping" began on the first Monday after St. Peter's Day. But,
before the swans could be taken up, they had to be caught. This was no
easy matter; for the swans are strong; and often they would lead the
uppers a hard chase among the crooks of the river.

The mark of the Vintners' Company is two nicks: hence came the
well-known sign on so many inns in England, "The Swan with Two Necks," a
corruption from "two nicks."