These "Thames swans" are very beautiful birds, and well worth a trip up
the river to see: so I hope, that, if ever the little readers of "The
Nursery" take a trip to England, they will visit Hurley in Bucks, and
there they will find "The Swans with Two Nicks."

B. P.

THE MAN IN THE MOON.

I KNOW two children,--a little girl named Helen, and a little boy named
Lewis. Sometimes in the evening, after tea, they come to me, and say,
"Papa, will you be the man in the moon and take us all a-sailing?"

Then I get into the rocking-chair, take Helen on one knee and Lewis on
the other, and as they lean on my breast, with their eyes shut, I rock
and talk to them thus:--

"Here we are up in the sky on the moon. Oh, how high we are! Below us
see the clouds blown about like feathers. Here we are safe and sound in
the moon. Look down, and see the trees on the earth. There's where the
birds are going to bed. Do you see that streak that looks like a silver
ribbon? That is a river flowing to the sea. Now we are over the ocean.
You can see our moonlight like great plates of silver all over it. See!
there comes a ship all white. It looks as if it had its nightdress on.

"Here we are over a town. How beautiful the streets look with gas-lamps
burning! And see all the pretty things in the shop-windows. I know what
Helen is looking at. It is the big doll dressed in silk and satin. I
know what Lewis is looking at. He is looking at the ginger-bread.

"Oh! now we are just over a little white house. I can see through the
window a man with two children in his lap. Oh, dear! he's going to do
something dreadful with them."

"What's that?" asks Helen. "Put them to bed," I say. But Lewis says
nothing. He is fast asleep.

HIERONIMUS.

THE BOY AND THE CAT.

SEE this small boy on the kitchen-table. How did he ever get up there
with such little short legs? And what is he looking at?

He is looking out of the window. He sees a cat on the sill outside. It
is an old strange cat.

The little boy is fond of kittens; but he does not like cats. He is not
polite to the strange cat.

"What do you want here?" he says. "Why do you stare at me so? Do you
want to eat me? I'm not a mouse. Go away!"

The cat answers with one word, "Mew!"

"What do you say?" asks the boy. "Are you cold? Do you want to come in?
Do you want some milk?"

And all that the cat says is, "Mew!"

"Go away!" says the boy again. "My mother does not like strange cats. I
do not like strange cats. If you are hungry, go and catch a rat. You
can't come in here."