The cat does not budge an inch. But still she answers with a pitiful
"Mew!"

Cats cannot talk; but they can think. This cat looks in at the window
and sees the boy. This is what she thinks.

"That boy looks like a boy that I knew when I was a kitten. I was a pet
then. Now I am a cat without any home. Nobody cares for me. I go from
house to house; but nobody takes me in. I wonder if I can't make that
little boy take pity on me. I will try.

"Ah! he treats me like everybody else. He tells me to go away. Pretty
soon he will say, 'Scat!' and throw water on me. No: he will not do
that. He is so much like the little boy who used to pet me when I was a
kitten, that I will not run away from him. I will beg to be let in."

So the cat sat still and said, "Mew!"

And the cat did not make a mistake. The little boy did take pity on her
at last. He toddled off to his mother as fast as his legs would carry
him, and got a pan of milk, which he set on the floor.

His mother opened the window for him, and the strange cat came in. How
eagerly she lapped up the milk! She was really a very nice cat. The
little boy soon began to make a pet of her.

And the cat was happy, and the boy was happy; and I don't know which was
the happier of the two.

UNCLE SAM.

BABY-BROTHER.

THIS is my baby-brother,
    Just one year old to-day:
    He cannot talk, he cannot walk;
    But he can laugh and play!

Step out now, baby-brother,
      And use your feet so small;
    Oh, never fear! while I am here,
      You shall not have a fall.

W. G.

UNDER GREEN LEAVES.

Words by IDA FAY.

Music by T. CRAMPTON.

1. The birdies are merrily singing;
       And Minnie is merrily swinging;
       And Minnie is merrily swinging;
           Safe from the forest tree, . . .
           Hangs the swing you may see;
       And the breeze a sweet odor is bringing,
           Under green leaves so free.

2  Hold tight to the ropes, little lady,
    || All round us is pleasant and shady; ||
           And now we will not go,
           Where the sun scorches so,
       But will stay in the grove, little lady,
         Where the cool streamlets flow.

3  You sit the swing well I am thinking,
    || Your eyes, as you rise, never blinking; ||
           You're brave, you little girl,
           But your hair's out of curl;
       Very soon at the glass you'll be prinking;
           Smoothing each glossy curl.

*       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes: Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

The original text for the July issue had a table of contents that
spanned six issues. This was divided amongst those issues.