Being the adventures of the Bastable children in search of a fortune

TO OSWALD BARRON Without whom this book could never have been written

The Treasure Seekers is dedicated in memory of childhoods identical but
for the accidents of time and space

CONTENTS

1.  The Council of Ways and Means
     2.  Digging for Treasure
     3.  Being Detectives
     4.  Good Hunting
     5.  The Poet and the Editor
     6.  Noel’s Princess
     7.  Being Bandits
     8.  Being Editors
     9.  The G. B.
     10. Lord Tottenham
     11. Castilian Amoroso
     12. The Nobleness of Oswald
     13. The Robber and the Burglar
     14. The Divining-rod
     15. ‘Lo, the Poor Indian!’
     16. The End of the Treasure-seeking

CHAPTER 1. THE COUNCIL OF WAYS AND MEANS

This is the story of the different ways we looked for treasure, and I
think when you have read it you will see that we were not lazy about the
looking.

There are some things I must tell before I begin to tell about the
treasure-seeking, because I have read books myself, and I know how
beastly it is when a story begins, “‘Alas!” said Hildegarde with a deep
sigh, “we must look our last on this ancestral home”’--and then some one
else says something--and you don’t know for pages and pages where the
home is, or who Hildegarde is, or anything about it. Our ancestral home
is in the Lewisham Road. It is semi-detached and has a garden, not a
large one. We are the Bastables. There are six of us besides Father. Our
Mother is dead, and if you think we don’t care because I don’t tell you
much about her you only show that you do not understand people at all.
Dora is the eldest. Then Oswald--and then Dicky. Oswald won the Latin
prize at his preparatory school--and Dicky is good at sums. Alice
and Noel are twins: they are ten, and Horace Octavius is my youngest
brother. It is one of us that tells this story--but I shall not tell you
which: only at the very end perhaps I will. While the story is going
on you may be trying to guess, only I bet you don’t. It was Oswald
who first thought of looking for treasure. Oswald often thinks of very
interesting things. And directly he thought of it he did not keep it
to himself, as some boys would have done, but he told the others, and
said--

‘I’ll tell you what, we must go and seek for treasure: it is always what
you do to restore the fallen fortunes of your House.’