‘Oh, well, it’s all the same--from deadly peril, then. There’s plenty
of that. Then he would turn out to be the Prince of Wales, and he would
say, “My noble, my cherished preserver! Here is a million pounds a year.
Rise up, Sir Oswald Bastable.”’

But the others did not seem to think so, and it was Alice’s turn to say.

She said, ‘I think we might try the divining-rod. I’m sure I could do
it. I’ve often read about it. You hold a stick in your hands, and when
you come to where there is gold underneath the stick kicks about. So you
know. And you dig.’

‘Oh,’ said Dora suddenly, ‘I have an idea. But I’ll say last. I hope the
divining-rod isn’t wrong. I believe it’s wrong in the Bible.’

‘So is eating pork and ducks,’ said Dicky. ‘You can’t go by that.’

‘Anyhow, we’ll try the other ways first,’ said Dora. ‘Now, H. O.’

‘Let’s be Bandits,’ said H. O. ‘I dare say it’s wrong but it would be
fun pretending.’

‘I’m sure it’s wrong,’ said Dora.

And Dicky said she thought everything wrong. She said she didn’t, and
Dicky was very disagreeable. So Oswald had to make peace, and he said--

‘Dora needn’t play if she doesn’t want to. Nobody asked her. And, Dicky,
don’t be an idiot: do dry up and let’s hear what Noel’s idea is.’

Dora and Dicky did not look pleased, but I kicked Noel under the table
to make him hurry up, and then he said he didn’t think he wanted to
play any more. That’s the worst of it. The others are so jolly ready to
quarrel. I told Noel to be a man and not a snivelling pig, and at last
he said he had not made up his mind whether he would print his poetry in
a book and sell it, or find a princess and marry her.

‘Whichever it is,’ he added, ‘none of you shall want for anything,
though Oswald did kick me, and say I was a snivelling pig.’

‘I didn’t,’ said Oswald, ‘I told you not to be.’ And Alice explained to
him that that was quite the opposite of what he thought. So he agreed to
drop it.

Then Dicky spoke.

‘You must all of you have noticed the advertisements in the papers,
telling you that ladies and gentlemen can easily earn two pounds a
week in their spare time, and to send two shillings for sample and
instructions, carefully packed free from observation. Now that we don’t
go to school all our time is spare time. So I should think we could
easily earn twenty pounds a week each. That would do us very well. We’ll
try some of the other things first, and directly we have any money we’ll
send for the sample and instructions. And I have another idea, but I
must think about it before I say.’

We all said, ‘Out with it--what’s the other idea?’