Well, when we had agreed to dig for treasure we all went down into the
cellar and lighted the gas. Oswald would have liked to dig there, but
it is stone flags. We looked among the old boxes and broken chairs and
fenders and empty bottles and things, and at last we found the spades we
had to dig in the sand with when we went to the seaside three years ago.
They are not silly, babyish, wooden spades, that split if you look at
them, but good iron, with a blue mark across the top of the iron part,
and yellow wooden handles. We wasted a little time getting them dusted,
because the girls wouldn’t dig with spades that had cobwebs on them.
Girls would never do for African explorers or anything like that, they
are too beastly particular.

It was no use doing the thing by halves. We marked out a sort of square
in the mouldy part of the garden, about three yards across, and began
to dig. But we found nothing except worms and stones--and the ground was
very hard.

So we thought we’d try another part of the garden, and we found a
place in the big round flower bed, where the ground was much softer. We
thought we’d make a smaller hole to begin with, and it was much better.
We dug and dug and dug, and it was jolly hard work! We got very hot
digging, but we found nothing.

Presently Albert-next-door looked over the wall. We do not like him very
much, but we let him play with us sometimes, because his father is dead,
and you must not be unkind to orphans, even if their mothers are
alive. Albert is always very tidy. He wears frilly collars and velvet
knickerbockers. I can’t think how he can bear to.

So we said, ‘Hallo!’

And he said, ‘What are you up to?’

‘We’re digging for treasure,’ said Alice; ‘an ancient parchment revealed
to us the place of concealment. Come over and help us. When we have
dug deep enough we shall find a great pot of red clay, full of gold and
precious jewels.’

Albert-next-door only sniggered and said, ‘What silly nonsense!’ He
cannot play properly at all. It is very strange, because he has a very
nice uncle. You see, Albert-next-door doesn’t care for reading, and he
has not read nearly so many books as we have, so he is very foolish and
ignorant, but it cannot be helped, and you just have to put up with it
when you want him to do anything. Besides, it is wrong to be angry with
people for not being so clever as you are yourself. It is not always
their faults.

So Oswald said, ‘Come and dig! Then you shall share the treasure when
we’ve found it.’

But he said, ‘I shan’t--I don’t like digging--and I’m just going in to
my tea.’

‘Come along and dig, there’s a good boy,’ Alice said. ‘You can use my
spade. It’s much the best--’