So he came along and dug, and when once he was over the wall we kept him
at it, and we worked as well, of course, and the hole got deep. Pincher
worked too--he is our dog and he is very good at digging. He digs for
rats in the dustbin sometimes, and gets very dirty. But we love our dog,
even when his face wants washing.

‘I expect we shall have to make a tunnel,’ Oswald said, ‘to reach the
rich treasure.’ So he jumped into the hole and began to dig at one side.
After that we took it in turns to dig at the tunnel, and Pincher was
most useful in scraping the earth out of the tunnel--he does it with
his back feet when you say ‘Rats!’ and he digs with his front ones, and
burrows with his nose as well.

At last the tunnel was nearly a yard long, and big enough to creep
along to find the treasure, if only it had been a bit longer. Now it was
Albert’s turn to go in and dig, but he funked it.

‘Take your turn like a man,’ said Oswald--nobody can say that Oswald
doesn’t take his turn like a man. But Albert wouldn’t. So we had to make
him, because it was only fair.

‘It’s quite easy,’ Alice said. ‘You just crawl in and dig with your
hands. Then when you come out we can scrape out what you’ve done, with
the spades. Come--be a man. You won’t notice it being dark in the tunnel
if you shut your eyes tight. We’ve all been in except Dora--and she
doesn’t like worms.’

‘I don’t like worms neither.’ Albert-next-door said this; but we
remembered how he had picked a fat red and black worm up in his fingers
and thrown it at Dora only the day before. So we put him in.

But he would not go in head first, the proper way, and dig with his
hands as we had done, and though Oswald was angry at the time, for he
hates snivellers, yet afterwards he owned that perhaps it was just
as well. You should never be afraid to own that perhaps you were
mistaken--but it is cowardly to do it unless you are quite sure you are
in the wrong.

‘Let me go in feet first,’ said Albert-next-door. ‘I’ll dig with my
boots--I will truly, honour bright.’

So we let him get in feet first--and he did it very slowly and at last
he was in, and only his head sticking out into the hole; and all the
rest of him in the tunnel.

‘Now dig with your boots,’ said Oswald; ‘and, Alice, do catch hold of
Pincher, he’ll be digging again in another minute, and perhaps it would
be uncomfortable for Albert if Pincher threw the mould into his eyes.’

You should always try to think of these little things. Thinking of other
people’s comfort makes them like you. Alice held Pincher, and we all
shouted, ‘Kick! dig with your feet, for all you’re worth!’