So Albert-next-door began to dig with his feet, and we stood on the
ground over him, waiting--and all in a minute the ground gave way, and
we tumbled together in a heap: and when we got up there was a little
shallow hollow where we had been standing, and Albert-next-door was
underneath, stuck quite fast, because the roof of the tunnel had tumbled
in on him. He is a horribly unlucky boy to have anything to do with.

It was dreadful the way he cried and screamed, though he had to own it
didn’t hurt, only it was rather heavy and he couldn’t move his legs. We
would have dug him out all right enough, in time, but he screamed so we
were afraid the police would come, so Dicky climbed over the wall, to

Dicky was a long time gone. We wondered what had become of him, and all
the while the screaming went on and on, for we had taken the loose earth
off Albert’s face so that he could scream quite easily and comfortably.

Presently Dicky came back and Albert-next-door’s uncle came with him. He
has very long legs, and his hair is light and his face is brown. He has
been to sea, but now he writes books. I like him.

He told his nephew to stow it, so Albert did, and then he asked him if
he was hurt--and Albert had to say he wasn’t, for though he is a coward,
and very unlucky, he is not a liar like some boys are.

‘This promises to be a protracted if agreeable task,’ said
Albert-next-door’s uncle, rubbing his hands and looking at the hole with
Albert’s head in it. ‘I will get another spade,’ so he fetched the big
spade out of the next-door garden tool-shed, and began to dig his nephew
out.

‘Mind you keep very still,’ he said, ‘or I might chunk a bit out of you
with the spade.’ Then after a while he said--

‘I confess that I am not absolutely insensible to the dramatic interest
of the situation. My curiosity is excited. I own that I should like to
know how my nephew happened to be buried. But don’t tell me if you’d
rather not. I suppose no force was used?’

‘Only moral force,’ said Alice. They used to talk a lot about moral
force at the High School where she went, and in case you don’t know what
it means I’ll tell you that it is making people do what they don’t want
to, just by slanging them, or laughing at them, or promising them things
if they’re good.

‘Only moral force, eh?’ said Albert-next-door’s uncle. ‘Well?’

‘Well,’ Dora said, ‘I’m very sorry it happened to Albert--I’d rather it
had been one of us. It would have been my turn to go into the tunnel,
only I don’t like worms, so they let me off. You see we were digging for
treasure.’