‘Yes,’ said Alice, ‘and I think we were just coming to the underground
passage that leads to the secret hoard, when the tunnel fell in on
Albert. He _is_ so unlucky,’ and she sighed.

Then Albert-next-door began to scream again, and his uncle wiped his
face--his own face, not Albert’s--with his silk handkerchief, and then
he put it in his trousers pocket. It seems a strange place to put a
handkerchief, but he had his coat and waistcoat off and I suppose he
wanted the handkerchief handy. Digging is warm work.

He told Albert-next-door to drop it, or he wouldn’t proceed further
in the matter, so Albert stopped screaming, and presently his uncle
finished digging him out. Albert did look so funny, with his hair all
dusty and his velvet suit covered with mould and his face muddy with
earth and crying.

We all said how sorry we were, but he wouldn’t say a word back to us. He
was most awfully sick to think he’d been the one buried, when it might
just as well have been one of us. I felt myself that it was hard lines.

‘So you were digging for treasure,’ said Albert-next-door’s uncle,
wiping his face again with his handkerchief. ‘Well, I fear that your
chances of success are small. I have made a careful study of the whole
subject. What I don’t know about buried treasure is not worth knowing.
And I never knew more than one coin buried in any one garden--and that
is generally--Hullo--what’s that?’

He pointed to something shining in the hole he had just dragged Albert
out of. Oswald picked it up. It was a half-crown. We looked at each
other, speechless with surprise and delight, like in books.

‘Well, that’s lucky, at all events,’ said Albert-next-door’s uncle.

‘Let’s see, that’s fivepence each for you.’

‘It’s fourpence--something; I can’t do fractions,’ said Dicky; ‘there
are seven of us, you see.’

‘Oh, you count Albert as one of yourselves on this occasion, eh?’

‘Of course,’ said Alice; ‘and I say, he was buried after all. Why
shouldn’t we let him have the odd somethings, and we’ll have fourpence
each.’

We all agreed to do this, and told Albert-next-door we would bring his
share as soon as we could get the half-crown changed. He cheered up a
little at that, and his uncle wiped his face again--he did look hot--and
began to put on his coat and waistcoat.

When he had done it he stooped and picked up something. He held it up,
and you will hardly believe it, but it is quite true--it was another
half-crown!

‘To think that there should be two!’ he said; ‘in all my experience of
buried treasure I never heard of such a thing!’

I wish Albert-next-door’s uncle would come treasure-seeking with us
regularly; he must have very sharp eyes: for Dora says she was looking
just the minute before at the very place where the second half-crown was
picked up from, and _she_ never saw it.

CHAPTER 3. BEING DETECTIVES