It was jolly hot weather, and very stuffy indoors--we used to play a
good deal in the garden. We made a tent out of the kitchen clothes-horse
and some blankets off our beds, and though it was quite as hot in the
tent as in the house it was a very different sort of hotness. Albert’s
uncle called it the Turkish Bath. It is not nice to be kept from the
seaside, but we know that we have much to be thankful for. We might be
poor little children living in a crowded alley where even at summer
noon hardly a ray of sunlight penetrates; clothed in rags and with bare
feet--though I do not mind holes in my clothes myself, and bare
feet would not be at all bad in this sort of weather. Indeed we do,
sometimes, when we are playing at things which require it. It was
shipwrecked mariners that day, I remember, and we were all in the
blanket tent. We had just finished eating the things we had saved, at
the peril of our lives, from the fast-sinking vessel. They were rather
nice things. Two-pennyworth of coconut candy--it was got in Greenwich,
where it is four ounces a penny--three apples, some macaroni--the
straight sort that is so useful to suck things through--some raw rice,
and a large piece of cold suet pudding that Alice nicked from the larder
when she went to get the rice and macaroni. And when we had finished
some one said--

‘I should like to be a detective.’

I wish to be quite fair, but I cannot remember exactly who said it.
Oswald thinks he said it, and Dora says it was Dicky, but Oswald is too
much of a man to quarrel about a little thing like that.

‘I should like to be a detective,’ said--perhaps it was Dicky, but I
think not--‘and find out strange and hidden crimes.’

‘You have to be much cleverer than you are,’ said H. O.

‘Not so very,’ Alice said, ‘because when you’ve read the books you know
what the things mean: the red hair on the handle of the knife, or the
grains of white powder on the velvet collar of the villain’s overcoat. I
believe we could do it.’

‘I shouldn’t like to have anything to do with murders,’ said Dora;
‘somehow it doesn’t seem safe--’

‘And it always ends in the poor murderer being hanged,’ said Alice.

We explained to her why murderers have to be hanged, but she only said,
‘I don’t care. I’m sure no one would ever do murdering _twice_. Think
of the blood and things, and what you would see when you woke up in the
night! I shouldn’t mind being a detective to lie in wait for a gang
of coiners, now, and spring upon them unawares, and secure
them--single-handed, you know, or with only my faithful bloodhound.’