She stroked Pincher’s ears, but he had gone to sleep because he knew
well enough that all the suet pudding was finished. He is a very
sensible dog. ‘You always get hold of the wrong end of the stick,’
Oswald said. ‘You can’t choose what crimes you’ll be a detective about.
You just have to get a suspicious circumstance, and then you look for a
clue and follow it up. Whether it turns out a murder or a missing will
is just a fluke.’

‘That’s one way,’ Dicky said. ‘Another is to get a paper and find
two advertisements or bits of news that fit. Like this: “Young Lady
Missing,” and then it tells about all the clothes she had on, and the
gold locket she wore, and the colour of her hair, and all that; and then
in another piece of the paper you see, “Gold locket found,” and then it
all comes out.’

We sent H. O. for the paper at once, but we could not make any of the
things fit in. The two best were about how some burglars broke into
a place in Holloway where they made preserved tongues and invalid
delicacies, and carried off a lot of them. And on another page there
was, ‘Mysterious deaths in Holloway.’

Oswald thought there was something in it, and so did Albert’s uncle when
we asked him, but the others thought not, so Oswald agreed to drop it.
Besides, Holloway is a long way off. All the time we were talking about
the paper Alice seemed to be thinking about something else, and when we
had done she said--

‘I believe we might be detectives ourselves, but I should not like to
get anybody into trouble.’

‘Not murderers or robbers?’ Dicky asked.

‘It wouldn’t be murderers,’ she said; ‘but I _have_ noticed something
strange. Only I feel a little frightened. Let’s ask Albert’s uncle
first.’

Alice is a jolly sight too fond of asking grown-up people things. And we
all said it was tommyrot, and she was to tell us.

‘Well, promise you won’t do anything without me,’ Alice said, and we
promised. Then she said--

‘This is a dark secret, and any one who thinks it is better not to be
involved in a career of crime-discovery had better go away ere yet it be
too late.’

So Dora said she had had enough of tents, and she was going to look at
the shops. H. O. went with her because he had twopence to spend. They
thought it was only a game of Alice’s but Oswald knew by the way she
spoke. He can nearly always tell. And when people are not telling the
truth Oswald generally knows by the way they look with their eyes.
Oswald is not proud of being able to do this. He knows it is through no
merit of his own that he is much cleverer than some people.

When they had gone, the rest of us got closer together and said--

‘Now then.’