‘Well,’ Alice said, ‘you know the house next door? The people have gone
to Scarborough. And the house is shut up. But last night _I saw a light
in the windows_.’

We asked her how and when, because her room is in the front, and she
couldn’t possibly have seen. And then she said--

‘I’ll tell you if you boys will promise not ever to go fishing again
without me.’

So we had to promise.

Then she said--

‘It was last night. I had forgotten to feed my rabbits and I woke up and
remembered it. And I was afraid I should find them dead in the morning,
like Oswald did.’

‘It wasn’t my fault,’ Oswald said; ‘there was something the matter with
the beasts. I fed them right enough.’

Alice said she didn’t mean that, and she went on--

‘I came down into the garden, and I saw a light in the house, and dark
figures moving about. I thought perhaps it was burglars, but Father
hadn’t come home, and Eliza had gone to bed, so I couldn’t do anything.
Only I thought perhaps I would tell the rest of you.’

‘Why didn’t you tell us this morning?’ Noel asked. And Alice explained
that she did not want to get any one into trouble, even burglars. ‘But
we might watch to-night,’ she said, ‘and see if we see the light again.’

‘They might have been burglars,’ Noel said. He was sucking the last bit
of his macaroni. ‘You know the people next door are very grand. They
won’t know us--and they go out in a real private carriage sometimes. And
they have an “At Home” day, and people come in cabs. I daresay they have
piles of plate and jewellery and rich brocades, and furs of price and
things like that. Let us keep watch to-night.’

‘It’s no use watching to-night,’ Dicky said; ‘if it’s only burglars they
won’t come again. But there are other things besides burglars that are
discovered in empty houses where lights are seen moving.’

‘You mean coiners,’ said Oswald at once. ‘I wonder what the reward is
for setting the police on their track?’

Dicky thought it ought to be something fat, because coiners are always
a desperate gang; and the machinery they make the coins with is so heavy
and handy for knocking down detectives.

Then it was tea-time, and we went in; and Dora and H. O. had clubbed
their money together and bought a melon; quite a big one, and only a
little bit squashy at one end. It was very good, and then we washed the
seeds and made things with them and with pins and cotton. And nobody
said any more about watching the house next door.

Only when we went to bed Dicky took off his coat and waistcoat, but he
stopped at his braces, and said--

‘What about the coiners?’