Dicky said, ‘My eye!’ and wouldn’t the others be sick to think they
hadn’t been in this! But Alice didn’t half like it--and as she is a girl
I do not blame her. Indeed, I thought myself at first that perhaps
it would be better to retire for the present, and return later with a
strongly armed force.

‘It’s not burglars,’ Alice whispered; ‘the mysterious stranger was
bringing things in, not taking them out. They must be coiners--and oh,
Oswald!--don’t let’s! The things they coin with must hurt very much. Do
let’s go to bed!’

But Dicky said he was going to see; if there was a reward for finding
out things like this he would like to have the reward.

‘They locked the back door,’ he whispered, ‘I heard it go. And I could
look in quite well through the holes in the shutters and be back over
the wall long before they’d got the door open, even if they started to
do it at once.’

There were holes at the top of the shutters the shape of hearts, and the
yellow light came out through them as well as through the chinks of the
shutters.

Oswald said if Dicky went he should, because he was the eldest; and
Alice said, ‘If any one goes it ought to be me, because I thought of
it.’

So Oswald said, ‘Well, go then’; and she said, ‘Not for anything!’ And
she begged us not to, and we talked about it in the tree till we were
all quite hoarse with whispering.

At last we decided on a plan of action.

Alice was to stay in the tree, and scream ‘Murder!’ if anything
happened. Dicky and I were to get down into the next garden and take it
in turns to peep.

So we got down as quietly as we could, but the tree made much more noise
than it does in the day, and several times we paused, fearing that all
was discovered. But nothing happened.

There was a pile of red flower-pots under the window and one very large
one was on the window-ledge. It seemed as if it was the hand of Destiny
had placed it there, and the geranium in it was dead, and there was
nothing to stop your standing on it--so Oswald did. He went first
because he is the eldest, and though Dicky tried to stop him because he
thought of it first it could not be, on account of not being able to say
anything.

So Oswald stood on the flower-pot and tried to look through one of the
holes. He did not really expect to see the coiners at their fell work,
though he had pretended to when we were talking in the tree. But if he
had seen them pouring the base molten metal into tin moulds the shape of
half-crowns he would not have been half so astonished as he was at the
spectacle now revealed.