The people next door did not come out to see what the row was. Albert’s
uncle did not wait for them to come out. He picked up Oswald and carried
the insensible body of the gallant young detective to the wall, laid it
on the top, and then climbed over and bore his lifeless burden into our
house and put it on the sofa in Father’s study. Father was out, so
we needn’t have _crept_ so when we were getting into the garden. Then
Oswald was restored to consciousness, and his head tied up, and sent
to bed, and next day there was a lump on his young brow as big as a
turkey’s egg, and very uncomfortable.

Albert’s uncle came in next day and talked to each of us separately.
To Oswald he said many unpleasant things about ungentlemanly to spy on
ladies, and about minding your own business; and when I began to tell
him what I had heard he told me to shut up, and altogether he made me
more uncomfortable than the bump did.

Oswald did not say anything to any one, but next day, as the shadows of
eve were falling, he crept away, and wrote on a piece of paper, ‘I want
to speak to you,’ and shoved it through the hole like a heart in the top
of the next-door shutters. And the youngest young lady put an eye to
the heart-shaped hole, and then opened the shutter and said ‘Well?’ very
crossly. Then Oswald said--

‘I am very sorry, and I beg your pardon. We wanted to be detectives, and
we thought a gang of coiners infested your house, so we looked through
your window last night. I saw the lettuce, and I heard what you said
about the salmon being three-halfpence cheaper, and I know it is very
dishonourable to pry into other people’s secrets, especially ladies’,
and I never will again if you will forgive me this once.’

Then the lady frowned and then she laughed, and then she said--

‘So it was you tumbling into the flower-pots last night? We thought it
was burglars. It frightened us horribly. Why, what a bump on your poor
head!’

And then she talked to me a bit, and presently she said she and her
sister had not wished people to know they were at home, because--And
then she stopped short and grew very red, and I said, ‘I thought you
were all at Scarborough; your servant told Eliza so. Why didn’t you want
people to know you were at home?’

The lady got redder still, and then she laughed and said--