Dora was sewing the buttons on H. O.’s Sunday things. He got himself a
knife with his money, and he cut every single one of his best buttons
off. You’ve no idea how many buttons there are on a suit. Dora counted
them. There are twenty-four, counting the little ones on the sleeves
that don’t undo.

Alice was trying to teach Pincher to beg; but he has too much sense
when he knows you’ve got nothing in your hands, and the rest of us were
roasting potatoes under the fire. We had made a fire on purpose,
though it was rather warm. They are very good if you cut away the burnt
parts--but you ought to wash them first, or you are a dirty boy.

‘Well, what can we do?’ said Dicky. ‘You are so fond of saying “Let’s do
something!” and never saying what.’

‘We can’t try the advertisement yet. Shall we try rescuing some one?’
said Oswald. It was his own idea, but he didn’t insist on doing it,
though he is next to the eldest, for he knows it is bad manners to make
people do what you want, when they would rather not.

‘What was Noel’s plan?’ Alice asked.

‘A Princess or a poetry book,’ said Noel sleepily. He was lying on his
back on the sofa, kicking his legs. ‘Only I shall look for the Princess
all by myself. But I’ll let you see her when we’re married.’

‘Have you got enough poetry to make a book?’ Dicky asked that, and it
was rather sensible of him, because when Noel came to look there were
only seven of his poems that any of us could understand. There was the
‘Wreck of the Malabar’, and the poem he wrote when Eliza took us to hear
the Reviving Preacher, and everybody cried, and Father said it must have
been the Preacher’s Eloquence. So Noel wrote:

O Eloquence and what art thou?
    Ay what art thou? because we cried
    And everybody cried inside
    When they came out their eyes were red--
    And it was your doing Father said.

But Noel told Alice he got the first line and a half from a book a boy
at school was going to write when he had time. Besides this there were
the ‘Lines on a Dead Black Beetle that was poisoned’--

O Beetle how I weep to see
       Thee lying on thy poor back!
    It is so very sad indeed.
       You were so shiny and black.
    I wish you were alive again
    But Eliza says wishing it is nonsense and a shame.

It was very good beetle poison, and there were hundreds of them lying
dead--but Noel only wrote a piece of poetry for one of them. He said he
hadn’t time to do them all, and the worst of it was he didn’t know which
one he’d written it to--so Alice couldn’t bury the beetle and put the
lines on its grave, though she wanted to very much.

Well, it was quite plain that there wasn’t enough poetry for a book.