The lady laughed--she was awfully jolly--and said she was a sort of
poet, too, and the long strips of paper were the proofs of her new book
of stories. Because before a book is made into a real book with pages
and a cover, they sometimes print it all on strips of paper, and the
writer make marks on it with a pencil to show the printers what idiots
they are not to understand what a writer means to have printed.

We told her all about digging for treasure, and what we meant to do.
Then she asked to see Noel’s poetry--and he said he didn’t like--so she
said, ‘Look here--if you’ll show me yours I’ll show you some of mine.’
So he agreed.

The jolly lady read Noel’s poetry, and she said she liked it very much.
And she thought a great deal of the picture of the Malabar. And then she
said, ‘I write serious poetry like yours myself; too, but I have a piece
here that I think you will like because it’s about a boy.’ She gave it
to us--and so I can copy it down, and I will, for it shows that some
grown-up ladies are not so silly as others. I like it better than Noel’s
poetry, though I told him I did not, because he looked as if he was
going to cry. This was very wrong, for you should always speak the
truth, however unhappy it makes people. And I generally do. But I did
not want him crying in the railway carriage. The lady’s piece of poetry:

Oh when I wake up in my bed
    And see the sun all fat and red,
    I’m glad to have another day
    For all my different kinds of play.

There are so many things to do--
    The things that make a man of you,
    If grown-ups did not get so vexed
    And wonder what you will do next.

I often wonder whether they
    Ever made up our kinds of play--
    If they were always good as gold
    And only did what they were told.

They like you best to play with tops
    And toys in boxes, bought in shops;
    They do not even know the names
    Of really interesting games.

They will not let you play with fire
    Or trip your sister up with wire,
    They grudge the tea-tray for a drum,
    Or booby-traps when callers come.

They don’t like fishing, and it’s true
    You sometimes soak a suit or two:
    They look on fireworks, though they’re dry,
    With quite a disapproving eye.

They do not understand the way
    To get the most out of your day:
    They do not know how hunger feels
    Nor what you need between your meals.

And when you’re sent to bed at night,
    They’re happy, but they’re not polite.
    For through the door you hear them say:
    ‘_He’s_ done _his_ mischief for the day!’