She told us a lot of other pieces but I cannot remember them, and she
talked to us all the way up, and when we got nearly to Cannon Street she
said--

‘I’ve got two new shillings here! Do you think they would help to smooth
the path to Fame?’

Noel said, ‘Thank you,’ and was going to take the shilling. But Oswald,
who always remembers what he is told, said--

‘Thank you very much, but Father told us we ought never to take anything
from strangers.’

‘That’s a nasty one,’ said the lady--she didn’t talk a bit like a real
lady, but more like a jolly sort of grown-up boy in a dress and hat--‘a
very nasty one! But don’t you think as Noel and I are both poets I might
be considered a sort of relation? You’ve heard of brother poets, haven’t
you? Don’t you think Noel and I are aunt and nephew poets, or some
relationship of that kind?’

I didn’t know what to say, and she went on--

‘It’s awfully straight of you to stick to what your Father tells you,
but look here, you take the shillings, and here’s my card. When you
get home tell your Father all about it, and if he says No, you can just
bring the shillings back to me.’

So we took the shillings, and she shook hands with us and said,
‘Good-bye, and good hunting!’

We did tell Father about it, and he said it was all right, and when
he looked at the card he told us we were highly honoured, for the lady
wrote better poetry than any other lady alive now. We had never heard of
her, and she seemed much too jolly for a poet. Good old Kipling! We owe
him those two shillings, as well as the Jungle books!

CHAPTER 5. THE POET AND THE EDITOR

It was not bad sport--being in London entirely on our own hook. We asked
the way to Fleet Street, where Father says all the newspaper offices
are. They said straight on down Ludgate Hill--but it turned out to be
quite another way. At least _we_ didn’t go straight on.

We got to St Paul’s. Noel _would_ go in, and we saw where Gordon was
buried--at least the monument. It is very flat, considering what a man
he was.