When we came out we walked a long way, and when we asked a policeman he
said we’d better go back through Smithfield. So we did. They don’t burn
people any more there now, so it was rather dull, besides being a long
way, and Noel got very tired. He’s a peaky little chap; it comes of
being a poet, I think. We had a bun or two at different shops--out of
the shillings--and it was quite late in the afternoon when we got to
Fleet Street. The gas was lighted and the electric lights. There is a
jolly Bovril sign that comes off and on in different coloured lamps. We
went to the Daily Recorder office, and asked to see the Editor. It is a
big office, very bright, with brass and mahogany and electric lights.

They told us the Editor wasn’t there, but at another office. So we went
down a dirty street, to a very dull-looking place. There was a man there
inside, in a glass case, as if he was a museum, and he told us to write
down our names and our business. So Oswald wrote--

OSWALD BASTABLE
            NOEL BASTABLE
      BUSINESS VERY PRIVATE INDEED

Then we waited on the stone stairs; it was very draughty. And the man in
the glass case looked at us as if we were the museum instead of him. We
waited a long time, and then a boy came down and said--

‘The Editor can’t see you. Will you please write your business?’ And he
laughed. I wanted to punch his head.

But Noel said, ‘Yes, I’ll write it if you’ll give me a pen and ink, and
a sheet of paper and an envelope.’

The boy said he’d better write by post. But Noel is a bit pig-headed;
it’s his worst fault. So he said--‘No, I’ll write it _now_.’ So I backed
him up by saying--

‘Look at the price penny stamps are since the coal strike!’

So the boy grinned, and the man in the glass case gave us pen and paper,
and Noel wrote. Oswald writes better than he does; but Noel would do it;
and it took a very long time, and then it was inky.

DEAR MR EDITOR, I want you to print my poetry and pay for it,
    and I am a friend of Mrs Leslie’s; she is a poet too.

Your affectionate friend,

NOEL BASTABLE.

He licked the envelope a good deal, so that that boy shouldn’t read it
going upstairs; and he wrote ‘Very private’ outside, and gave the letter
to the boy. I thought it wasn’t any good; but in a minute the grinning
boy came back, and he was quite respectful, and said--‘The Editor says,
please will you step up?’

We stepped up. There were a lot of stairs and passages, and a queer sort
of humming, hammering sound and a very funny smell. The boy was now very
polite, and said it was the ink we smelt, and the noise was the printing
machines.