After going through a lot of cold passages we came to a door; the boy
opened it, and let us go in. There was a large room, with a big, soft,
blue-and-red carpet, and a roaring fire, though it was only October; and
a large table with drawers, and littered with papers, just like the one
in Father’s study. A gentleman was sitting at one side of the table; he
had a light moustache and light eyes, and he looked very young to be an
editor--not nearly so old as Father. He looked very tired and sleepy,
as if he had got up very early in the morning; but he was kind, and we
liked him. Oswald thought he looked clever. Oswald is considered a judge
of faces.

‘Well,’ said he, ‘so you are Mrs Leslie’s friends?’

‘I think so,’ said Noel; ‘at least she gave us each a shilling, and she
wished us “good hunting!”’

‘Good hunting, eh? Well, what about this poetry of yours? Which is the
poet?’

I can’t think how he could have asked! Oswald is said to be a very
manly-looking boy for his age. However, I thought it would look duffing
to be offended, so I said--

‘This is my brother Noel. He is the poet.’ Noel had turned quite pale.
He is disgustingly like a girl in some ways. The Editor told us to sit
down, and he took the poems from Noel, and began to read them. Noel got
paler and paler; I really thought he was going to faint, like he did
when I held his hand under the cold-water tap, after I had accidentally
cut him with my chisel. When the Editor had read the first poem--it was
the one about the beetle--he got up and stood with his back to us. It
was not manners; but Noel thinks he did it ‘to conceal his emotion,’ as
they do in books. He read all the poems, and then he said--

‘I like your poetry very much, young man. I’ll give you--let me see; how
much shall I give you for it?’

‘As much as ever you can,’ said Noel. ‘You see I want a good deal of
money to restore the fallen fortunes of the house of Bastable.’

The gentleman put on some eye-glasses and looked hard at us. Then he sat
down.

‘That’s a good idea,’ said he. ‘Tell me how you came to think of it.
And, I say, have you had any tea? They’ve just sent out for mine.’