He rang a tingly bell, and the boy brought in a tray with a teapot and
a thick cup and saucer and things, and he had to fetch another tray for
us, when he was told to; and we had tea with the Editor of the Daily
Recorder. I suppose it was a very proud moment for Noel, though I
did not think of that till afterwards. The Editor asked us a lot of
questions, and we told him a good deal, though of course I did not tell
a stranger all our reasons for thinking that the family fortunes wanted
restoring. We stayed about half an hour, and when we were going away he
said again--

‘I shall print all your poems, my poet; and now what do you think
they’re worth?’

‘I don’t know,’ Noel said. ‘You see I didn’t write them to sell.’

‘Why did you write them then?’ he asked.

Noel said he didn’t know; he supposed because he wanted to.

‘Art for Art’s sake, eh?’ said the Editor, and he seemed quite
delighted, as though Noel had said something clever.

‘Well, would a guinea meet your views?’ he asked.

I have read of people being at a loss for words, and dumb with emotion,
and I’ve read of people being turned to stone with astonishment, or
joy, or something, but I never knew how silly it looked till I saw Noel
standing staring at the Editor with his mouth open. He went red and he
went white, and then he got crimson, as if you were rubbing more and
more crimson lake on a palette. But he didn’t say a word, so Oswald had
to say--

‘I should jolly well think so.’

So the Editor gave Noel a sovereign and a shilling, and he shook hands
with us both, but he thumped Noel on the back and said--

‘Buck up, old man! It’s your first guinea, but it won’t be your last.
Now go along home, and in about ten years you can bring me some more
poetry. Not before--see? I’m just taking this poetry of yours because I
like it very much; but we don’t put poetry in this paper at all. I shall
have to put it in another paper I know of.’

‘What _do_ you put in your paper?’ I asked, for Father always takes the
Daily Chronicle, and I didn’t know what the Recorder was like. We chose
it because it has such a glorious office, and a clock outside lighted
up.

‘Oh, news,’ said he, ‘and dull articles, and things about Celebrities.
If you know any Celebrities, now?’

Noel asked him what Celebrities were.

‘Oh, the Queen and the Princes, and people with titles, and people who
write, or sing, or act--or do something clever or wicked.’

‘I don’t know anybody wicked,’ said Oswald, wishing he had known Dick
Turpin, or Claude Duval, so as to be able to tell the Editor things
about them. ‘But I know some one with a title--Lord Tottenham.’