‘The mad old Protectionist, eh? How did you come to know him?’

‘We don’t know him to speak to. But he goes over the Heath every day at
three, and he strides along like a giant--with a black cloak like Lord
Tennyson’s flying behind him, and he talks to himself like one o’clock.’

‘What does he say?’ The Editor had sat down again, and he was fiddling
with a blue pencil.

‘We only heard him once, close enough to understand, and then he said,
“The curse of the country, sir--ruin and desolation!” And then he went
striding along again, hitting at the furze-bushes as if they were the
heads of his enemies.’

‘Excellent descriptive touch,’ said the Editor. ‘Well, go on.’

‘That’s all I know about him, except that he stops in the middle of the
Heath every day, and he looks all round to see if there’s any one about,
and if there isn’t, he takes his collar off.’

The Editor interrupted--which is considered rude--and said--

‘You’re not romancing?’

‘I beg your pardon?’ said Oswald. ‘Drawing the long bow, I mean,’ said
the Editor.

Oswald drew himself up, and said he wasn’t a liar.

The Editor only laughed, and said romancing and lying were not at all
the same; only it was important to know what you were playing at. So
Oswald accepted his apology, and went on.

‘We were hiding among the furze-bushes one day, and we saw him do it. He
took off his collar, and he put on a clean one, and he threw the other
among the furze-bushes. We picked it up afterwards, and it was a beastly
paper one!’

‘Thank you,’ said the Editor, and he got up and put his hand in his
pocket. ‘That’s well worth five shillings, and there they are. Would you
like to see round the printing offices before you go home?’

I pocketed my five bob, and thanked him, and I said we should like it
very much. He called another gentleman and said something we couldn’t
hear. Then he said good-bye again; and all this time Noel hadn’t said a
word. But now he said, ‘I’ve made a poem about you. It is called “Lines
to a Noble Editor.” Shall I write it down?’

The Editor gave him the blue pencil, and he sat down at the Editor’s
table and wrote. It was this, he told me afterwards as well as he could
remember--

May Life’s choicest blessings be your lot
    I think you ought to be very blest
    For you are going to print my poems--
    And you may have this one as well as the rest.

‘Thank you,’ said the Editor. ‘I don’t think I ever had a poem addressed
to me before. I shall treasure it, I assure you.’

Then the other gentleman said something about Maecenas, and we went off
to see the printing office with at least one pound seven in our pockets.

It _was_ good hunting, and no mistake!