But he never put Noel’s poetry in the Daily Recorder. It was quite a
long time afterwards we saw a sort of story thing in a magazine, on the
station bookstall, and that kind, sleepy-looking Editor had written it,
I suppose. It was not at all amusing. It said a lot about Noel and me,
describing us all wrong, and saying how we had tea with the Editor;
and all Noel’s poems were in the story thing. I think myself the Editor
seemed to make game of them, but Noel was quite pleased to see them
printed--so that’s all right. It wasn’t my poetry anyhow, I am glad to
say.

CHAPTER 6. NOEL’S PRINCESS

She happened quite accidentally. We were not looking for a Princess at
all just then; but Noel had said he was going to find a Princess all by
himself; and marry her--and he really did. Which was rather odd, because
when people say things are going to befall, very often they don’t. It
was different, of course, with the prophets of old.

We did not get any treasure by it, except twelve chocolate drops; but we
might have done, and it was an adventure, anyhow.

Greenwich Park is a jolly good place to play in, especially the parts
that aren’t near Greenwich. The parts near the Heath are first-rate.
I often wish the Park was nearer our house; but I suppose a Park is a
difficult thing to move.

Sometimes we get Eliza to put lunch in a basket, and we go up to the
Park. She likes that--it saves cooking dinner for us; and sometimes she
says of her own accord, ‘I’ve made some pasties for you, and you might
as well go into the Park as not. It’s a lovely day.’

She always tells us to rinse out the cup at the drinking-fountain, and
the girls do; but I always put my head under the tap and drink. Then you
are an intrepid hunter at a mountain stream--and besides, you’re sure
it’s clean. Dicky does the same, and so does H. O. But Noel always
drinks out of the cup. He says it is a golden goblet wrought by
enchanted gnomes.

The day the Princess happened was a fine, hot day, last October, and we
were quite tired with the walk up to the Park.

We always go in by the little gate at the top of Croom’s Hill. It is
the postern gate that things always happen at in stories. It was dusty
walking, but when we got in the Park it was ripping, so we rested a bit,
and lay on our backs, and looked up at the trees, and wished we could
play monkeys. I have done it before now, but the Park-keeper makes a row
if he catches you.

When we’d rested a little, Alice said--

‘It was a long way to the enchanted wood, but it is very nice now we are
there. I wonder what we shall find in it?’