‘We shall find deer,’ said Dicky, ‘if we go to look; but they go on the
other side of the Park because of the people with buns.’

Saying buns made us think of lunch, so we had it; and when we had done
we scratched a hole under a tree and buried the papers, because we know
it spoils pretty places to leave beastly, greasy papers lying about. I
remember Mother teaching me and Dora that, when we were quite little.
I wish everybody’s parents would teach them this useful lesson, and the
same about orange peel.

When we’d eaten everything there was, Alice whispered--

‘I see the white witch bear yonder among the trees! Let’s track it and
slay it in its lair.’

‘I am the bear,’ said Noel; so he crept away, and we followed him among
the trees. Often the witch bear was out of sight, and then you didn’t
know where it would jump out from; but sometimes we saw it, and just
followed.

‘When we catch it there’ll be a great fight,’ said Oswald; ‘and I shall
be Count Folko of Mont Faucon.’

‘I’ll be Gabrielle,’ said Dora. She is the only one of us who likes
doing girl’s parts.

‘I’ll be Sintram,’ said Alice; ‘and H. O. can be the Little Master.’

‘What about Dicky?’

‘Oh, I can be the Pilgrim with the bones.’

‘Hist!’ whispered Alice. ‘See his white fairy fur gleaming amid yonder
covert!’

And I saw a bit of white too. It was Noel’s collar, and it had come
undone at the back.

We hunted the bear in and out of the trees, and then we lost him
altogether; and suddenly we found the wall of the Park--in a place where
I’m sure there wasn’t a wall before. Noel wasn’t anywhere about, and
there was a door in the wall. And it was open; so we went through.

‘The bear has hidden himself in these mountain fastnesses,’ Oswald said.
‘I will draw my good sword and after him.’

So I drew the umbrella, which Dora always will bring in case it rains,
because Noel gets a cold on the chest at the least thing--and we went
on.

The other side of the wall it was a stable yard, all cobble-stones.

There was nobody about--but we could hear a man rubbing down a horse
and hissing in the stable; so we crept very quietly past, and Alice
whispered--

‘’Tis the lair of the Monster Serpent; I hear his deadly hiss! Beware!
Courage and despatch!’