We went over the stones on tiptoe, and we found another wall with
another door in it on the other side. We went through that too, on
tiptoe. It really was an adventure. And there we were in a shrubbery,
and we saw something white through the trees. Dora said it was the white
bear. That is so like Dora. She always begins to take part in a play
just when the rest of us are getting tired of it. I don’t mean this
unkindly, because I am very fond of Dora. I cannot forget how kind she
was when I had bronchitis; and ingratitude is a dreadful vice. But it is
quite true.

‘It is not a bear,’ said Oswald; and we all went on, still on tiptoe,
round a twisty path and on to a lawn, and there was Noel. His collar had
come undone, as I said, and he had an inky mark on his face that he made
just before we left the house, and he wouldn’t let Dora wash it off,
and one of his bootlaces was coming down. He was standing looking at a
little girl; she was the funniest little girl you ever saw.

She was like a china doll--the sixpenny kind; she had a white face, and
long yellow hair, done up very tight in two pigtails; her forehead was
very big and lumpy, and her cheeks came high up, like little shelves
under her eyes. Her eyes were small and blue. She had on a funny black
frock, with curly braid on it, and button boots that went almost up to
her knees. Her legs were very thin. She was sitting in a hammock chair
nursing a blue kitten--not a sky-blue one, of course, but the colour
of a new slate pencil. As we came up we heard her say to Noel--‘Who are
you?’

Noel had forgotten about the bear, and he was taking his favourite part,
so he said--‘I’m Prince Camaralzaman.’

The funny little girl looked pleased--

‘I thought at first you were a common boy,’ she said. Then she saw the
rest of us and said--

‘Are you all Princesses and Princes too?’

Of course we said ‘Yes,’ and she said--

‘I am a Princess also.’ She said it very well too, exactly as if it were
true. We were very glad, because it is so seldom you meet any children
who can begin to play right off without having everything explained to
them. And even then they will say they are going to ‘pretend to be’ a
lion, or a witch, or a king. Now this little girl just said ‘I _am_ a
Princess.’ Then she looked at Oswald and said, ‘I fancy I’ve seen you at
Baden.’

Of course Oswald said, ‘Very likely.’

The little girl had a funny voice, and all her words were quite plain,
each word by itself; she didn’t talk at all like we do.

H. O. asked her what the cat’s name was, and she said ‘Katinka.’ Then
Dicky said--