Every paper is written for some reason. Ours is because we want to sell
it and get money. If what we have written brings happiness to any sad
heart we shall not have laboured in vain. But we want the money too.
Many papers are content with the sad heart and the happiness, but we are
not like that, and it is best not to be deceitful. EDITORS.

There will be two serial stories; One by Dicky and one by all of us. In
a serial story you only put in one chapter at a time. But we shall put
all our serial story at once, if Dora has time to copy it. Dicky’s will
come later on.

CHAPTER I--by Dora

The sun was setting behind a romantic-looking tower when two strangers
might have been observed descending the crest of the hill. The eldest,
a man in the prime of life; the other a handsome youth who reminded
everybody of Quentin Durward. They approached the Castle, in which the
fair Lady Alicia awaited her deliverers. She leaned from the castellated
window and waved her lily hand as they approached. They returned her
signal, and retired to seek rest and refreshment at a neighbouring
hostelry.

------------         CHAPTER II--by Alice

The Princess was very uncomfortable in the tower, because her fairy
godmother had told her all sorts of horrid things would happen if she
didn’t catch a mouse every day, and she had caught so many mice that now
there were hardly any left to catch. So she sent her carrier pigeon to
ask the noble Strangers if they could send her a few mice--because she
would be of age in a few days and then it wouldn’t matter. So the fairy
godmother--- (I’m very sorry, but there’s no room to make the chapters
any longer.-ED.)

------------         CHAPTER III--by the Sub-Editor

(I can’t--I’d much rather not--I don’t know how.)

------------         CHAPTER IV--by Dicky

I must now retrace my steps and tell you something about our hero. You
must know he had been to an awfully jolly school, where they had turkey
and goose every day for dinner, and never any mutton, and as many helps
of pudding as a fellow cared to send up his plate for--so of course they
had all grown up very strong, and before he left school he challenged
the Head to have it out man to man, and he gave it him, I tell you. That
was the education that made him able to fight Red Indians, and to be the
stranger who might have been observed in the first chapter.

------------         CHAPTER V--by Noel

I think it’s time something happened in this story. So then the dragon
he came out, blowing fire out of his nose, and he said--

‘Come on, you valiant man and true, I’d like to have a set-to along of
you!’

(That’s bad English.--ED. I don’t care; it’s what the dragon said. Who
told you dragons didn’t talk bad English?--Noel.)

So the hero, whose name was Noeloninuris, replied--