‘My blade is sharp, my axe is keen,
     You’re not nearly as big
     As a good many dragons I’ve seen.’

(Don’t put in so much poetry, Noel. It’s not fair, because none of the
others can do it.--ED.)

And then they went at it, and he beat the dragon, just as he did the
Head in Dicky’s part of the Story, and so he married the Princess, and
they lived--- (No they didn’t--not till the last chapter.--ED.)

------------         CHAPTER VI--by H. O.

I think it’s a very nice Story--but what about the mice? I don’t want to
say any more. Dora can have what’s left of my chapter.

------------         CHAPTER VII--by the Editors

And so when the dragon was dead there were lots of mice, because he used
to kill them for his tea but now they rapidly multiplied and ravaged the
country, so the fair lady Alicia, sometimes called the Princess, had
to say she would not marry any one unless they could rid the country of
this plague of mice. Then the Prince, whose real name didn’t begin
with N, but was Osrawalddo, waved his magic sword, and the dragon stood
before them, bowing gracefully. They made him promise to be good, and
then they forgave him; and when the wedding breakfast came, all the
bones were saved for him. And so they were married and lived happy ever
after.

(What became of the other stranger?--NOEL. The dragon ate him because he
asked too many questions.--EDITORS.)

This is the end of the story.

INSTRUCTIVE

It only takes four hours and a quarter now to get from London to
Manchester; but I should not think any one would if they could help it.

A DREADFUL WARNING. A wicked boy told me a very instructive thing about
ginger. They had opened one of the large jars, and he happened to take
out quite a lot, and he made it all right by dropping marbles in, till
there was as much ginger as before. But he told me that on the Sunday,
when it was coming near the part where there is only juice generally, I
had no idea what his feelings were. I don’t see what he could have said
when they asked him. I should be sorry to act like it.

------------             SCIENTIFIC

Experiments should always be made out of doors. And don’t use
benzoline.--DICKY. (That was when he burnt his eyebrows off.--ED.)

The earth is 2,400 miles round, and 800 through--at least I think so,
but perhaps it’s the other way.--DICKY. (You ought to have been sure
before you began.--ED.)

------------            SCIENTIFIC COLUMN

In this so-called Nineteenth Century Science is but too little
considered in the nurseries of the rich and proud. But we are not like
that.