It is not generally known that if you put bits of camphor in luke-warm
water it will move about. If you drop sweet oil in, the camphor will
dart away and then stop moving. But don’t drop any till you are tired
of it, because the camphor won’t any more afterwards. Much amusement and
instruction is lost by not knowing things like this.

If you put a sixpence under a shilling in a wine-glass, and blow hard
down the side of the glass, the sixpence will jump up and sit on the top
of the shilling. At least I can’t do it myself, but my cousin can. He is
in the Navy.

------------         ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS

Noel. You are very poetical, but I am sorry to say it will not do.

Alice. Nothing will ever make your hair curl, so it’s no use. Some
people say it’s more important to tidy up as you go along. I don’t mean
you in particular, but every one.

H. O. We never said you were tubby, but the Editor does not know any
cure.

Noel. If there is any of the paper over when this newspaper is finished,
I will exchange it for your shut-up inkstand, or the knife that has the
useful thing in it for taking stones out of horses’ feet, but you can’t
have it without.

H. O. There are many ways how your steam engine might stop working.
You might ask Dicky. He knows one of them. I think it is the way yours
stopped.

Noel. If you think that by filling the garden with sand you can make
crabs build their nests there you are not at all sensible.

You have altered your poem about the battle of Waterloo so often, that
we cannot read it except where the Duke waves his sword and says some
thing we can’t read either. Why did you write it on blotting-paper with
purple chalk?--ED. (Because YOU KNOW WHO sneaked my pencil.--NOEL.)

------------             POETRY

The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold,
    And the way he came down was awful, I’m told;
    But it’s nothing to the way one of the Editors comes down on me,
    If I crumble my bread-and-butter or spill my tea.
                                               NOEL.
             ------------             CURIOUS FACTS

If you hold a guinea-pig up by his tail his eyes drop out.

You can’t do half the things yourself that children in books do, making
models or soon. I wonder why?--ALICE.

If you take a date’s stone out and put in an almond and eat them
together, it is prime. I found this out.--SUB-EDITOR.

If you put your wet hand into boiling lead it will not hurt you if you
draw it out quickly enough. I have never tried this.--DORA.

------------           THE PURRING CLASS

(Instructive Article)