If I ever keep a school everything shall be quite different. Nobody
shall learn anything they don’t want to. And sometimes instead of having
masters and mistresses we will have cats, and we will dress up in cat
skins and learn purring. ‘Now, my dears,’ the old cat will say, ‘one,
two, three all purr together,’ and we shall purr like anything.

She won’t teach us to mew, but we shall know how without teaching.
Children do know some things without being taught.--ALICE.

------------             POETRY
      (Translated into French by Dora)

Quand j’etais jeune et j’etais fou
     J’achetai un violon pour dix-huit sous
     Et tous les airs que je jouai
     Etait over the hills and far away.

Another piece of it

Mercie jolie vache qui fait
     Bon lait pour mon dejeuner
     Tous les matins tous les soirs
     Mon pain je mange, ton lait je boire.

------------             RECREATIONS

It is a mistake to think that cats are playful. I often try to get a cat
to play with me, and she never seems to care about the game, no matter
how little it hurts.--H. O.

Making pots and pans with clay is fun, but do not tell the grown-ups. It
is better to surprise them; and then you must say at once how easily it
washes off--much easier than ink.--DICKY.

‘Well, Annie, I have bad news for you,’ said Mr Ridgway, as he entered
the comfortable dining-room of his cabin in the Bush. ‘Sam Redfern the
Bushranger is about this part of the Bush just now. I hope he will not
attack us with his gang.’

‘I hope not,’ responded Annie, a gentle maiden of some sixteen summers.

Just then came a knock at the door of the hut, and a gruff voice asked
them to open the door.

‘It is Sam Redfern the Bushranger, father,’ said the girl.

‘The same,’ responded the voice, and the next moment the hall door was
smashed in, and Sam Redfern sprang in, followed by his gang.

------------             CHAPTER II

Annie’s Father was at once overpowered, and Annie herself lay bound with
cords on the drawing-room sofa. Sam Redfern set a guard round the lonely
hut, and all human aid was despaired of. But you never know. Far away in
the Bush a different scene was being enacted.

‘Must be Injuns,’ said a tall man to himself as he pushed his way
through the brushwood. It was Jim Carlton, the celebrated detective. ‘I
know them,’ he added; ‘they are Apaches.’ just then ten Indians in full
war-paint appeared. Carlton raised his rifle and fired, and slinging
their scalps on his arm he hastened towards the humble log hut where
resided his affianced bride, Annie Ridgway, sometimes known as the
Flower of the Bush.

------------             CHAPTER III

The moon was low on the horizon, and Sam Redfern was seated at a
drinking bout with some of his boon companions.

They had rifled the cellars of the hut, and the rich wines flowed like
water in the golden goblets of Mr Ridgway.