But Annie had made friends with one of the gang, a noble, good-hearted
man who had joined Sam Redfern by mistake, and she had told him to go
and get the police as quickly as possible.

‘Ha! ha!’ cried Redfern, ‘now I am enjoying myself!’ He little knew that
his doom was near upon him.

Just then Annie gave a piercing scream, and Sam Redfern got up, seizing
his revolver. ‘Who are you?’ he cried, as a man entered.

‘I am Jim Carlton, the celebrated detective,’ said the new arrival.

Sam Redfern’s revolver dropped from his nerveless fingers, but the next
moment he had sprung upon the detective with the well-known activity of
the mountain sheep, and Annie shrieked, for she had grown to love the
rough Bushranger.

(To be continued at the end of the paper if there is room.)

------------             SCHOLASTIC

A new slate is horrid till it is washed in milk. I like the green spots
on them to draw patterns round. I know a good way to make a slate-pencil
squeak, but I won’t put it in because I don’t want to make it
common.--SUB-EDITOR.

Peppermint is a great help with arithmetic. The boy who was second in
the Oxford Local always did it. He gave me two. The examiner said to
him, ‘Are you eating peppermints?’ And he said, ‘No, Sir.’

He told me afterwards it was quite true, because he was only sucking
one. I’m glad I wasn’t asked. I should never have thought of that, and I
could have had to say ‘Yes.’--OSWALD.

(Author of ‘A Dream of Ancient Ancestors.’) He isn’t really--but he put
it in to make it seem more real.

Hark! what is that noise of rolling
       Waves and thunder in the air?
    ‘Tis the death-knell of the sailors
       And officers and passengers of the good ship Malabar.

It was a fair and lovely noon
       When the good ship put out of port
    And people said ‘ah little we think
       How soon she will be the elements’ sport.’

She was indeed a lovely sight
       Upon the billows with sails spread.
    But the captain folded his gloomy arms,
       Ah--if she had been a life-boat instead!

See the captain stern yet gloomy
       Flings his son upon a rock,
    Hoping that there his darling boy
       May escape the wreck.

Alas in vain the loud winds roared
       And nobody was saved.
    That was the wreck of the Malabar,
       Then let us toll for the brave.
                                    NOEL.

------------            GARDENING NOTES

It is useless to plant cherry-stones in the hope of eating the fruit,
because they don’t!

Alice won’t lend her gardening tools again, because the last time Noel
left them out in the rain, and I don’t like it. He said he didn’t.

------------            SEEDS AND BULBS

These are useful to play at shop with, until you are ready. Not at
dinner-parties, for they will not grow unless uncooked. Potatoes are
not grown with seed, but with chopped-up potatoes. Apple trees are grown
from twigs, which is less wasteful.