Oak trees come from acorns. Every one knows this. When Noel says he
could grow one from a peach stone wrapped up in oak leaves, he shows
been picked.

A boy once dared me to eat a bulb.

Dogs are very industrious and fond of gardening. Pincher is always
planting bones, but they never grow up. There couldn’t be a bone tree.
I think this is what makes him bark so unhappily at night. He has never
tried planting dog-biscuit, but he is fonder of bones, and perhaps he
wants to be quite sure about them first.

------------         CHAPTER IV AND LAST

This would have been a jolly good story if they had let me finish it at
the beginning of the paper as I wanted to. But now I have forgotten how
I meant it to end, and I have lost my book about Red Indians, and all my
Boys of England have been sneaked. The girls say ‘Good riddance!’ so I
expect they did it. They want me just to put in which Annie married, but
I shan’t, so they will never know.

We have now put everything we can think of into the paper. It takes a
lot of thinking about. I don’t know how grown-ups manage to write all
they do. It must make their heads ache, especially lesson books.

Albert-next-door only wrote one chapter of the serial story, but he
could have done some more if he had wanted to. He could not write out
any of the things because he cannot spell. He says he can, but it takes
him such a long time he might just as well not be able. There are one or
two things more. I am sick of it, but Dora says she will write them in.

LEGAL ANSWER WANTED. A quantity of excellent string is offered if you
know whether there really is a law passed about not buying gunpowder
under thirteen.--DICKY.

The price of this paper is one shilling each, and sixpence extra for the
picture of the Malabar going down with all hands. If we sell one hundred
copies we will write another paper.

*   *   *

And so we would have done, but we never did. Albert-next-door’s uncle
gave us two shillings, that was all. You can’t restore fallen fortunes
with two shillings!

CHAPTER 9. THE G. B.

Being editors is not the best way to wealth. We all feel this now, and
highwaymen are not respected any more like they used to be.