But the rest of us were sure he hadn’t, because, of course, if he had,
there would have been more money to buy nice things. Just then Pincher
jumped up and knocked over the painting-water. He is a very careless
dog. I wonder why painting-water is always such an ugly colour? Dora ran
for a duster to wipe it up, and H. O. dropped drops of the water on his
hands and said he had got the plague. So we played at the plague for a
bit, and I was an Arab physician with a bath-towel turban, and cured
the plague with magic acid-drops. After that it was time for dinner, and
after dinner we talked it all over and settled that we would go and see
the Generous Benefactor the very next day. But we thought perhaps the G.
B.--it is short for Generous Benefactor--would not like it if there were
so many of us. I have often noticed that it is the worst of our being
six--people think six a great many, when it’s children. That sentence
looks wrong somehow. I mean they don’t mind six pairs of boots, or six
pounds of apples, or six oranges, especially in equations, but they
seem to think you ought not to have five brothers and sisters. Of course
Dicky was to go, because it was his idea. Dora had to go to Blackheath
to see an old lady, a friend of Father’s, so she couldn’t go. Alice
said _she_ ought to go, because it said, ‘Ladies _and_ gentlemen,’ and
perhaps the G. B. wouldn’t let us have the money unless there were both
kinds of us.

H. O. said Alice wasn’t a lady; and she said _he_ wasn’t going, anyway.
Then he called her a disagreeable cat, and she began to cry.

But Oswald always tries to make up quarrels, so he said--

‘You’re little sillies, both of you!’

And Dora said, ‘Don’t cry, Alice; he only meant you weren’t a grown-up
lady.’

Then H. O. said, ‘What else did you think I meant, Disagreeable?’

So Dicky said, ‘Don’t be disagreeable yourself, H. O. Let her alone and
say you’re sorry, or I’ll jolly well make you!’

So H. O. said he was sorry. Then Alice kissed him and said she was sorry
too; and after that H. O. gave her a hug, and said, ‘Now I’m _really and
truly_ sorry,’ So it was all right.