Noel went the last time any of us went to London, so he was out of it,
and Dora said she would take him to Blackheath if we’d take H. O. So as
there’d been a little disagreeableness we thought it was better to take
him, and we did. At first we thought we’d tear our oldest things a bit
more, and put some patches of different colours on them, to show the
G. B. how much we wanted money. But Dora said that would be a sort
of cheating, pretending we were poorer than we are. And Dora is right
sometimes, though she is our elder sister. Then we thought we’d better
wear our best things, so that the G. B. might see we weren’t so very
poor that he couldn’t trust us to pay his money back when we had it. But
Dora said that would be wrong too. So it came to our being quite honest,
as Dora said, and going just as we were, without even washing our faces
and hands; but when I looked at H. O. in the train I wished we had not
been quite so particularly honest.

Every one who reads this knows what it is like to go in the train, so I
shall not tell about it--though it was rather fun, especially the part
where the guard came for the tickets at Waterloo, and H. O. was under
the seat and pretended to be a dog without a ticket. We went to Charing
bit we got to Brook Street, Bond Street. It was a brass plate on a
door next to a shop--a very grand place, where they sold bonnets and
hats--all very bright and smart, and no tickets on them to tell you
the price. We rang a bell and a boy opened the door and we asked for Mr
Rosenbaum. The boy was not polite; he did not ask us in. So then Dicky
gave him his visiting card; it was one of Father’s really, but the
name is the same, Mr Richard Bastable, and we others wrote our names
underneath. I happened to have a piece of pink chalk in my pocket and we
wrote them with that.

Then the boy shut the door in our faces and we waited on the step. But
presently he came down and asked our business. So Dicky said--

‘Money advanced, young shaver! and don’t be all day about it!’

And then he made us wait again, till I was quite stiff in my legs, but
Alice liked it because of looking at the hats and bonnets, and at last
the door opened, and the boy said--

‘Mr Rosenbaum will see you,’ so we wiped our feet on the mat, which said
so, and we went up stairs with soft carpets and into a room. It was a
beautiful room. I wished then we had put on our best things, or at least
washed a little. But it was too late now.