The room had velvet curtains and a soft, soft carpet, and it was full
of the most splendid things. Black and gold cabinets, and china, and
statues, and pictures. There was a picture of a cabbage and a pheasant
and a dead hare that was just like life, and I would have given worlds
to have it for my own. The fur was so natural I should never have been
tired of looking at it; but Alice liked the one of the girl with
the broken jug best. Then besides the pictures there were clocks and
candlesticks and vases, and gilt looking-glasses, and boxes of cigars
and scent and things littered all over the chairs and tables. It was a
wonderful place, and in the middle of all the splendour was a little old
gentleman with a very long black coat and a very long white beard and a
hookey nose--like a falcon. And he put on a pair of gold spectacles and
looked at us as if he knew exactly how much our clothes were worth.

And then, while we elder ones were thinking how to begin, for we had
all said ‘Good morning’ as we came in, of course, H. O. began before we
could stop him. He said:

‘Are you the G. B.?’

‘The _what_?’ said the little old gentleman.

‘The G. B.,’ said H. O., and I winked at him to shut up, but he didn’t
see me, and the G. B. did. He waved his hand at _me_ to shut up, so I
had to, and H. O. went on--‘It stands for Generous Benefactor.’

The old gentleman frowned. Then he said, ‘Your Father sent you here, I
suppose?’

‘No he didn’t,’ said Dicky. ‘Why did you think so?’

The old gentleman held out the card, and I explained that we took that
because Father’s name happens to be the same as Dicky’s.

‘Doesn’t he know you’ve come?’

‘No,’ said Alice, ‘we shan’t tell him till we’ve got the partnership,
because his own business worries him a good deal and we don’t want to
bother him with ours till it’s settled, and then we shall give him half
our share.’

The old gentleman took off his spectacles and rumpled his hair with his
hands, then he said, ‘Then what _did_ you come for?’

‘We saw your advertisement,’ Dicky said, ‘and we want a hundred pounds
on our note of hand, and my sister came so that there should be both
kinds of us; and we want it to buy a partnership with in the lucrative
business for sale of useful patent. No personal attendance necessary.’

‘I don’t think I quite follow you,’ said the G. B. ‘But one thing I
should like settled before entering more fully into the matter: why did
you call me Generous Benefactor?’