‘Well, you see,’ said Alice, smiling at him to show she wasn’t
frightened, though I know really she was, awfully, ‘we thought it was so
_very_ kind of you to try to find out the poor people who want money and
to help them and lend them your money.’

‘Hum!’ said the G. B. ‘Sit down.’

He cleared the clocks and vases and candlesticks off some of the chairs,
and we sat down. The chairs were velvety, with gilt legs. It was like a
king’s palace.

‘Now,’ he said, ‘you ought to be at school, instead of thinking about
money. Why aren’t you?’

We told him that we should go to school again when Father could manage
it, but meantime we wanted to do something to restore the fallen
fortunes of the House of Bastable. And we said we thought the lucrative
patent would be a very good thing. He asked a lot of questions, and we
told him everything we didn’t think Father would mind our telling, and
at last he said--

‘You wish to borrow money. When will you repay it?’

‘As soon as we’ve got it, of course,’ Dicky said.

Then the G. B. said to Oswald, ‘You seem the eldest,’ but I explained to
him that it was Dicky’s idea, so my being eldest didn’t matter. Then he
said to Dicky--‘You are a minor, I presume?’

Dicky said he wasn’t yet, but he had thought of being a mining engineer
some day, and going to Klondike.

‘Minor, not miner,’ said the G. B. ‘I mean you’re not of age?’

‘I shall be in ten years, though,’ said Dicky. ‘Then you might repudiate
the loan,’ said the G. B., and Dicky said ‘What?’

Of course he ought to have said ‘I beg your pardon. I didn’t quite catch
what you said’--that is what Oswald would have said. It is more polite
than ‘What.’

‘Repudiate the loan,’ the G. B repeated. ‘I mean you might say you would
not pay me back the money, and the law could not compel you to do so.’

‘Oh, well, if you think we’re such sneaks,’ said Dicky, and he got
up off his chair. But the G. B. said, ‘Sit down, sit down; I was only
joking.’

Then he talked some more, and at last he said--‘I don’t advise you to
enter into that partnership. It’s a swindle. Many advertisements are.
And I have not a hundred pounds by me to-day to lend you. But I will
lend you a pound, and you can spend it as you like. And when you are
twenty-one you shall pay me back.’

‘I shall pay you back long before that,’ said Dicky. ‘Thanks, awfully!
And what about the note of hand?’

‘Oh,’ said the G. B., ‘I’ll trust to your honour. Between gentlemen, you
know--and ladies’--he made a beautiful bow to Alice--‘a word is as good
as a bond.’