Then he took out a sovereign, and held it in his hand while he talked
to us. He gave us a lot of good advice about not going into business
too young, and about doing our lessons--just swatting a bit, on our own
hook, so as not to be put in a low form when we went back to school. And
all the time he was stroking the sovereign and looking at it as if he
thought it very beautiful. And so it was, for it was a new one. Then at
last he held it out to Dicky, and when Dicky put out his hand for it the
G. B. suddenly put the sovereign back in his pocket.

‘No,’ he said, ‘I won’t give you the sovereign. I’ll give you fifteen
shillings, and this nice bottle of scent. It’s worth far more than the
five shillings I’m charging you for it. And, when you can, you shall pay
me back the pound, and sixty per cent interest--sixty per cent, sixty
per cent.’

‘What’s that?’ said H. O.

The G. B. said he’d tell us that when we paid back the sovereign, but
sixty per cent was nothing to be afraid of. He gave Dicky the money. And
the boy was made to call a cab, and the G. B. put us in and shook hands
with us all, and asked Alice to give him a kiss, so she did, and H. O.
would do it too, though his face was dirtier than ever. The G. B. paid
the cabman and told him what station to go to, and so we went home.

That evening Father had a letter by the seven-o’clock post. And when
he had read it he came up into the nursery. He did not look quite so
unhappy as usual, but he looked grave.

‘You’ve been to Mr Rosenbaum’s,’ he said.

So we told him all about it. It took a long time, and Father sat in the
armchair. It was jolly. He doesn’t often come and talk to us now. He has
to spend all his time thinking about his business. And when we’d told
him all about it he said--

‘You haven’t done any harm this time, children; rather good than harm,
indeed. Mr Rosenbaum has written me a very kind letter.’

‘Is he a friend of yours, Father?’ Oswald asked. ‘He is an
acquaintance,’ said my father, frowning a little, ‘we have done some
business together. And this letter--’ he stopped and then said: ‘No;
you didn’t do any harm to-day; but I want you for the future not to do
anything so serious as to try to buy a partnership without consulting
me, that’s all. I don’t want to interfere with your plays and pleasures;
but you will consult me about business matters, won’t you?’

Of course we said we should be delighted, but then Alice, who was
sitting on his knee, said, ‘We didn’t like to bother you.’