Father said, ‘I haven’t much time to be with you, for my business takes
most of my time. It is an anxious business--but I can’t bear to think of
your being left all alone like this.’

He looked so sad we all said we liked being alone. And then he looked
sadder than ever.

Then Alice said, ‘We don’t mean that exactly, Father. It is rather
lonely sometimes, since Mother died.’

Then we were all quiet a little while. Father stayed with us till we
went to bed, and when he said good night he looked quite cheerful. So we
told him so, and he said--

‘Well, the fact is, that letter took a weight off my mind.’ I can’t
think what he meant--but I am sure the G. B. would be pleased if he
could know he had taken a weight off somebody’s mind. He is that sort of
man, I think.

We gave the scent to Dora. It is not quite such good scent as we thought
it would be, but we had fifteen shillings--and they were all good, so is
the G. B.

And until those fifteen shillings were spent we felt almost as jolly as
though our fortunes had been properly restored. You do not notice your
general fortune so much, as long as you have money in your pocket. This
is why so many children with regular pocket-money have never felt
it their duty to seek for treasure. So, perhaps, our not having
pocket-money was a blessing in disguise. But the disguise was quite
impenetrable, like the villains’ in the books; and it seemed still more
so when the fifteen shillings were all spent. Then at last the others
agreed to let Oswald try his way of seeking for treasure, but they were
not at all keen about it, and many a boy less firm than Oswald would
have chucked the whole thing. But Oswald knew that a hero must rely on
himself alone. So he stuck to it, and presently the others saw their
duty, and backed him up.

CHAPTER 10. LORD TOTTENHAM

Oswald is a boy of firm and unswerving character, and he had never
wavered from his first idea. He felt quite certain that the books were
right, and that the best way to restore fallen fortunes was to rescue an
old gentleman in distress. Then he brings you up as his own son: but
if you preferred to go on being your own father’s son I expect the old
gentleman would make it up to you some other way. In the books the least
thing does it--you put up the railway carriage window--or you pick up
his purse when he drops it--or you say a hymn when he suddenly asks you
to, and then your fortune is made.