The others, as I said, were very slack about it, and did not seem to
care much about trying the rescue. They said there wasn’t any deadly
peril, and we should have to make one before we could rescue the old
gentleman from it, but Oswald didn’t see that that mattered. However, he
thought he would try some of the easier ways first, by himself.

So he waited about the station, pulling up railway carriage windows for
old gentlemen who looked likely--but nothing happened, and at last the
porters said he was a nuisance. So that was no go. No one ever asked him
to say a hymn, though he had learned a nice short one, beginning ‘New
every morning’--and when an old gentleman did drop a two-shilling piece
just by Ellis’s the hairdresser’s, and Oswald picked it up, and was
just thinking what he should say when he returned it, the old gentleman
caught him by the collar and called him a young thief. It would have
been very unpleasant for Oswald if he hadn’t happened to be a very
brave boy, and knew the policeman on that beat very well indeed. So the
policeman backed him up, and the old gentleman said he was sorry, and
offered Oswald sixpence. Oswald refused it with polite disdain, and
nothing more happened at all.

When Oswald had tried by himself and it had not come off, he said to the
others, ‘We’re wasting our time, not trying to rescue the old gentleman
in deadly peril. Come--buck up! Do let’s do something!’

It was dinner-time, and Pincher was going round getting the bits off
the plates. There were plenty because it was cold-mutton day. And Alice
said--

‘It’s only fair to try Oswald’s way--he has tried all the things the
others thought of. Why couldn’t we rescue Lord Tottenham?’

Lord Tottenham is the old gentleman who walks over the Heath every day
in a paper collar at three o’clock--and when he gets halfway, if there
is no one about, he changes his collar and throws the dirty one into the
furze-bushes.

Dicky said, ‘Lord Tottenham’s all right--but where’s the deadly peril?’

And we couldn’t think of any. There are no highwaymen on Blackheath now,
I am sorry to say. And though Oswald said half of us could be highwaymen
and the other half rescue party, Dora kept on saying it would be wrong
to be a highwayman--and so we had to give that up.

Then Alice said, ‘What about Pincher?’

And we all saw at once that it could be done.

Pincher is very well bred, and he does know one or two things, though we
never could teach him to beg. But if you tell him to hold on--he will do
it, even if you only say ‘Seize him!’ in a whisper.