So we arranged it all. Dora said she wouldn’t play; she said she thought
it was wrong, and she knew it was silly--so we left her out, and she
went and sat in the dining-room with a goody-book, so as to be able to
say she didn’t have anything to do with it, if we got into a row over
it.

Alice and H. O. were to hide in the furze-bushes just by where Lord
Tottenham changes his collar, and they were to whisper, ‘Seize him!’ to
Pincher; and then when Pincher had seized Lord Tottenham we were to
go and rescue him from his deadly peril. And he would say, ‘How can I
reward you, my noble young preservers?’ and it would be all right.

So we went up to the Heath. We were afraid of being late. Oswald told
the others what Procrastination was--so they got to the furze-bushes a
little after two o’clock, and it was rather cold. Alice and H. O. and
Pincher hid, but Pincher did not like it any more than they did, and as
we three walked up and down we heard him whining. And Alice kept saying,
‘I _am_ so cold! Isn’t he coming yet?’ And H. O. wanted to come out
and jump about to warm himself. But we told him he must learn to be
a Spartan boy, and that he ought to be very thankful he hadn’t got a
beastly fox eating his inside all the time. H. O. is our little brother,
and we are not going to let it be our fault if he grows up a milksop.
Besides, it was not really cold. It was his knees--he wears socks. So
they stayed where they were. And at last, when even the other three who
were walking about were beginning to feel rather chilly, we saw Lord
Tottenham’s big black cloak coming along, flapping in the wind like a
great bird. So we said to Alice--

‘Hist! he approaches. You’ll know when to set Pincher on by hearing Lord
Tottenham talking to himself--he always does while he is taking off his
collar.’

Then we three walked slowly away whistling to show we were not thinking
of anything. Our lips were rather cold, but we managed to do it.

Lord Tottenham came striding along, talking to himself. People call him
the mad Protectionist. I don’t know what it means--but I don’t think
people ought to call a Lord such names.

As he passed us he said, ‘Ruin of the country, sir! Fatal error, fatal
error!’ And then we looked back and saw he was getting quite near where
Pincher was, and Alice and H. O. We walked on--so that he shouldn’t
think we were looking--and in a minute we heard Pincher’s bark, and then
nothing for a bit; and then we looked round, and sure enough good old
Pincher had got Lord Tottenham by the trouser leg and was holding on
like billy-ho, so we started to run.