‘But why,’ the Vicar was saying, ‘why did you bring this dreadful fluid,
this curse of our country, to _me_ to taste?’

‘Because we thought you might buy some,’ said Dora, who never sees when
a game is up. ‘In books the parson loves his bottle of old port; and new
sherry is just as good--with sugar--for people who like sherry. And if
you would order a dozen of the wine, then we should get two shillings.’

The lady said (and it _was_ the voice), ‘Good gracious! Nasty, sordid
little things! Haven’t they any one to teach them better?’

And Dora got up and said, ‘No, we are not those things you say; but we
are sorry we came here to be called names. We want to make our fortune
just as much as Mr Mallow does--only no one would listen to us if we
preached, so it’s no use our copying out sermons like him.’

And I think that was smart of Dora, even if it was rather rude.

Then I said perhaps we had better go, and the lady said, ‘I should think
so!’

But when we were going to wrap up the bottle and glass the clergyman
said, ‘No; you can leave that,’ and we were so upset we did, though it
wasn’t his after all.

We walked home very fast and not saying much, and the girls went up to
their rooms. When I went to tell them tea was ready, and there was
a teacake, Dora was crying like anything and Alice hugging her. I am
afraid there is a great deal of crying in this chapter, but I can’t help
it. Girls will sometimes; I suppose it is their nature, and we ought to
be sorry for their affliction.

‘It’s no good,’ Dora was saying, ‘you all hate me, and you think I’m
a prig and a busybody, but I do try to do right--oh, I do! Oswald, go
away; don’t come here making fun of me!’

So I said, ‘I’m not making fun, Sissy; don’t cry, old girl.’

Mother taught me to call her Sissy when we were very little and before
the others came, but I don’t often somehow, now we are old. I patted her
on the back, and she put her head against my sleeve, holding on to Alice
all the time, and she went on. She was in that laughy-cryey state when
people say things they wouldn’t say at other times.

‘Oh dear, oh dear--I do try, I do. And when Mother died she said, “Dora,
take care of the others, and teach them to be good, and keep them out of
trouble and make them happy.” She said, “Take care of them for me, Dora
dear.” And I have tried, and all of you hate me for it; and to-day I let
you do this, though I knew all the time it was silly.’