I hope you will not think I was a muff but I kissed Dora for some time.
Because girls like it. And I will never say again that she comes the
good elder sister too much. And I have put all this in though I do hate
telling about it, because I own I have been hard on Dora, but I never
will be again. She is a good old sort; of course we never knew before
about what Mother told her, or we wouldn’t have ragged her as we did. We
did not tell the little ones, but I got Alice to speak to Dicky, and we
three can sit on the others if requisite.

This made us forget all about the sherry; but about eight o’clock there
was a knock, and Eliza went, and we saw it was poor Jane, if her name
was Jane, from the Vicarage. She handed in a brown-paper parcel and a
letter. And three minutes later Father called us into his study.

On the table was the brown-paper parcel, open, with our bottle and glass
on it, and Father had a letter in his hand. He Pointed to the bottle and
sighed, and said, ‘What have you been doing now?’ The letter in his hand
was covered with little black writing, all over the four large pages.

So Dicky spoke up, and he told Father the whole thing, as far as he knew
it, for Alice and I had not told about the dead sailors’ lady.

And when he had done, Alice said, ‘Has Mr Mallow written to you to say
he will buy a dozen of the sherry after all? It is really not half bad
with sugar in it.’

Father said no, he didn’t think clergymen could afford such expensive
wine; and he said _he_ would like to taste it. So we gave him what there
was left, for we had decided coming home that we would give up trying
for the two pounds a week in our spare time.

Father tasted it, and then he acted just as H. O. had done when he had
his teaspoonful, but of course we did not say anything. Then he laughed
till I thought he would never stop.

I think it was the sherry, because I am sure I have read somewhere about
‘wine that maketh glad the heart of man’. He had only a very little,
which shows that it was a good after-dinner wine, stimulating, and yet
...I forget the rest.

But when he had done laughing he said, ‘It’s all right, kids. Only don’t
do it again. The wine trade is overcrowded; and besides, I thought you
promised to consult me before going into business?’

‘Before buying one I thought you meant,’ said Dicky. ‘This was only on
commission.’ And Father laughed again. I am glad we got the Castilian
Amoroso, because it did really cheer Father up, and you cannot always do
that, however hard you try, even if you make jokes, or give him a comic
paper.