CHAPTER 12. THE NOBLENESS OF OSWALD

The part about his nobleness only comes at the end, but you would
not understand it unless you knew how it began. It began, like nearly
everything about that time, with treasure-seeking.

Of course as soon as we had promised to consult my Father about business
matters we all gave up wanting to go into business. I don’t know how it
is, but having to consult about a thing with grown-up people, even
the bravest and the best, seems to make the thing not worth doing
afterwards.

We don’t mind Albert’s uncle chipping in sometimes when the thing’s
going on, but we are glad he never asked us to promise to consult him
about anything. Yet Oswald saw that my Father was quite right; and I
daresay if we had had that hundred pounds we should have spent it on the
share in that lucrative business for the sale of useful patent, and then
found out afterwards that we should have done better to spend the money
in some other way. My Father says so, and he ought to know. We had
several ideas about that time, but having so little chink always stood
in the way.

This was the case with H. O.’s idea of setting up a coconut-shy on this
side of the Heath, where there are none generally. We had no sticks
or wooden balls, and the greengrocer said he could not book so many as
twelve dozen coconuts without Mr Bastable’s written order. And as we did
not wish to consult my Father it was decided to drop it. And when Alice
dressed up Pincher in some of the dolls’ clothes and we made up our
minds to take him round with an organ as soon as we had taught him to
dance, we were stopped at once by Dicky’s remembering how he had once
heard that an organ cost seven hundred pounds. Of course this was
the big church kind, but even the ones on three legs can’t be got for
one-and-sevenpence, which was all we had when we first thought of it. So
we gave that up too.

It was a wet day, I remember, and mutton hash for dinner--very tough
with pale gravy with lumps in it. I think the others would have left a
good deal on the sides of their plates, although they know better, only
Oswald said it was a savoury stew made of the red deer that Edward shot.
So then we were the Children of the New Forest, and the mutton tasted
much better. No one in the New Forest minds venison being tough and the
gravy pale.

Then after dinner we let the girls have a dolls’ tea-party, on condition
they didn’t expect us boys to wash up; and it was when we were drinking
the last of the liquorice water out of the little cups that Dicky said--

‘This reminds me.’

So we said, ‘What of?’