Dicky answered us at once, though his mouth was full of bread with
liquorice stuck in it to look like cake. You should not speak with your
mouth full, even to your own relations, and you shouldn’t wipe your
mouth on the back of your hand, but on your handkerchief, if you have
one. Dicky did not do this. He said--

‘Why, you remember when we first began about treasure-seeking, I said
I had thought of something, only I could not tell you because I hadn’t
finished thinking about it.’

We said ‘Yes.’

‘Well, this liquorice water--’

‘Tea,’ said Alice softly.

‘Well, tea then--made me think.’ He was going on to say what it made him
think, but Noel interrupted and cried out, ‘I say; let’s finish off this
old tea-party and have a council of war.’

So we got out the flags and the wooden sword and the drum, and Oswald
beat it while the girls washed up, till Eliza came up to say she had the
jumping toothache, and the noise went through her like a knife. So of
course Oswald left off at once. When you are polite to Oswald he never
refuses to grant your requests.

When we were all dressed up we sat down round the camp fire, and Dicky
began again.

‘Every one in the world wants money. Some people get it. The people who
get it are the ones who see things. I have seen one thing.’

Dicky stopped and smoked the pipe of peace. It is the pipe we did
bubbles with in the summer, and somehow it has not got broken yet.
We put tea-leaves in it for the pipe of peace, but the girls are not
allowed to have any. It is not right to let girls smoke. They get to
think too much of themselves if you let them do everything the same as
men. Oswald said, ‘Out with it.’

‘I see that glass bottles only cost a penny. H. O., if you dare to
snigger I’ll send you round selling old bottles, and you shan’t have any
sweets except out of the money you get for them. And the same with you,
Noel.’

‘Noel wasn’t sniggering,’ said Alice in a hurry; ‘it is only his taking
so much interest in what you were saying makes him look like that. Be
quiet, H. O., and don’t you make faces, either. Do go on, Dicky dear.’

So Dicky went on.

‘There must be hundreds of millions of bottles of medicines sold every
year. Because all the different medicines say, “Thousands of cures
daily,” and if you only take that as two thousand, which it must be, at
least, it mounts up. And the people who sell them must make a great deal
of money by them because they are nearly always two-and-ninepence
the bottle, and three-and-six for one nearly double the size. Now the
bottles, as I was saying, don’t cost anything like that.’