‘It’s the medicine costs the money,’ said Dora; ‘look how expensive
jujubes are at the chemist’s, and peppermints too.’

‘That’s only because they’re nice,’ Dicky explained; ‘nasty things are
not so dear. Look what a lot of brimstone you get for a penny, and the
same with alum. We would not put the nice kinds of chemist’s things in
our medicine.’

Then he went on to tell us that when we had invented our medicine we
would write and tell the editor about it, and he would put it in
the paper, and then people would send their two-and-ninepence and
three-and-six for the bottle nearly double the size, and then when the
medicine had cured them they would write to the paper and their letters
would be printed, saying how they had been suffering for years, and
never thought to get about again, but thanks to the blessing of our
ointment--’

Dora interrupted and said, ‘Not ointment--it’s so messy.’ And Alice
thought so too. And Dicky said he did not mean it, he was quite decided
to let it be in bottles. So now it was all settled, and we did not
see at the time that this would be a sort of going into business, but
afterwards when Albert’s uncle showed us we saw it, and we were sorry.
We only had to invent the medicine. You might think that was easy,
because of the number of them you see every day in the paper, but it is
much harder than you think. First we had to decide what sort of illness
we should like to cure, and a ‘heated discussion ensued’, like in
Parliament.

Dora wanted it to be something to make the complexion of dazzling
fairness, but we remembered how her face came all red and rough when
she used the Rosabella soap that was advertised to make the darkest
complexion fair as the lily, and she agreed that perhaps it was better
not. Noel wanted to make the medicine first and then find out what
it would cure, but Dicky thought not, because there are so many more
medicines than there are things the matter with us, so it would be
easier to choose the disease first. Oswald would have liked wounds.
I still think it was a good idea, but Dicky said, ‘Who has wounds,
especially now there aren’t any wars? We shouldn’t sell a bottle a day!’
So Oswald gave in because he knows what manners are, and it was Dicky’s
idea. H. O. wanted a cure for the uncomfortable feeling that they give
you powders for, but we explained to him that grown-up people do not
have this feeling, however much they eat, and he agreed. Dicky said
he did not care a straw what the loathsome disease was, as long as we
hurried up and settled on something. Then Alice said--