‘It ought to be something very common, and only one thing. Not the pains
in the back and all the hundreds of things the people have in somebody’s
syrup. What’s the commonest thing of all?’

And at once we said, ‘Colds.’

So that was settled.

Then we wrote a label to go on the bottle. When it was written it would
not go on the vinegar bottle that we had got, but we knew it would go
small when it was printed. It was like this:

BASTABLE’S
           CERTAIN CURE FOR COLDS
Coughs, Asthma, Shortness of Breath, and all infections of the Chest

One dose gives immediate relief
   It will cure your cold in one bottle
     Especially the larger size at 3s. 6d.
       Order at once of the Makers
       To prevent disappointment

Makers:

D., O., R., A., N., and H. O. BASTABLE
             150, Lewisham Road, S.E.

(A halfpenny for all bottles returned)

------------

Of course the next thing was for one of us to catch a cold and try what
cured it; we all wanted to be the one, but it was Dicky’s idea, and he
said he was not going to be done out of it, so we let him. It was only
fair. He left off his undershirt that very day, and next morning he
stood in a draught in his nightgown for quite a long time. And we damped
his day-shirt with the nail-brush before he put it on. But all was vain.
They always tell you that these things will give you cold, but we found
it was not so.

So then we all went over to the Park, and Dicky went right into the
water with his boots on, and stood there as long as he could bear it,
for it was rather cold, and we stood and cheered him on. He walked home
in his wet clothes, which they say is a sure thing, but it was no go,
though his boots were quite spoiled. And three days after Noel began to
cough and sneeze.

So then Dicky said it was not fair.

‘I can’t help it,’ Noel said. ‘You should have caught it yourself, then
it wouldn’t have come to me.’

And Alice said she had known all along Noel oughtn’t to have stood about
on the bank cheering in the cold.

Noel had to go to bed, and then we began to make the medicines; we were
sorry he was out of it, but he had the fun of taking the things.

We made a great many medicines. Alice made herb tea. She got sage and
thyme and savory and marjoram and boiled them all up together with salt
and water, but she _would_ put parsley in too. Oswald is sure parsley is
not a herb. It is only put on the cold meat and you are not supposed to
eat it. It kills parrots to eat parsley, I believe. I expect it was the
parsley that disagreed so with Noel. The medicine did not seem to do the
cough any good.