Oswald got a pennyworth of alum, because it is so cheap, and some
turpentine which every one knows is good for colds, and a little sugar
and an aniseed ball. These were mixed in a bottle with water, but Eliza
threw it away and said it was nasty rubbish, and I hadn’t any money to
get more things with.

Dora made him some gruel, and he said it did his chest good; but of
course that was no use, because you cannot put gruel in bottles and say
it is medicine. It would not be honest, and besides nobody would believe
you.

Dick mixed up lemon-juice and sugar and a little of the juice of the red
flannel that Noel’s throat was done up in. It comes out beautifully
in hot water. Noel took this and he liked it. Noel’s own idea was
liquorice-water, and we let him have it, but it is too plain and black
to sell in bottles at the proper price.

Noel liked H. O.’s medicine the best, which was silly of him, because it
was only peppermints melted in hot water, and a little cobalt to make
it look blue. It was all right, because H. O.’s paint-box is the French
kind, with Couleurs non Veneneuses on it. This means you may suck your
brushes if you want to, or even your paints if you are a very little
boy.

It was rather jolly while Noel had that cold. He had a fire in his
bedroom which opens out of Dicky’s and Oswald’s, and the girls used to
read aloud to Noel all day; they will not read aloud to you when you are
well. Father was away at Liverpool on business, and Albert’s uncle was
at Hastings. We were rather glad of this, because we wished to give
all the medicines a fair trial, and grown-ups are but too fond of
interfering. As if we should have given him anything poisonous!

His cold went on--it was bad in his head, but it was not one of the kind
when he has to have poultices and can’t sit up in bed. But when it had
been in his head nearly a week, Oswald happened to tumble over Alice on
the stairs. When we got up she was crying.

‘Don’t cry silly!’ said Oswald; ‘you know I didn’t hurt you.’ I was very
sorry if I had hurt her, but you ought not to sit on the stairs in the
dark and let other people tumble over you. You ought to remember how
beastly it is for them if they do hurt you.

‘Oh, it’s not that, Oswald,’ Alice said. ‘Don’t be a pig! I am so
miserable. Do be kind to me.’

So Oswald thumped her on the back and told her to shut up.