‘It’s about Noel,’ she said. ‘I’m sure he’s very ill; and playing about
with medicines is all very well, but I know he’s ill, and Eliza won’t
send for the doctor: she says it’s only a cold. And I know the doctor’s
bills are awful. I heard Father telling Aunt Emily so in the summer. But
he _is_ ill, and perhaps he’ll die or something.’

Then she began to cry again. Oswald thumped her again, because he knows
how a good brother ought to behave, and said, ‘Cheer up.’ If we had been
in a book Oswald would have embraced his little sister tenderly, and
mingled his tears with hers.

Then Oswald said, ‘Why not write to Father?’

And she cried more and said, ‘I’ve lost the paper with the address. H.
O. had it to draw on the back of, and I can’t find it now; I’ve looked
everywhere. I’ll tell you what I’m going to do. No I won’t. But I’m
going out. Don’t tell the others. And I say, Oswald, do pretend I’m in
if Eliza asks. Promise.’

‘Tell me what you’re going to do,’ I said. But she said ‘No’; and there
was a good reason why not. So I said I wouldn’t promise if it came to
that. Of course I meant to all right. But it did seem mean of her not to
tell me.

So Alice went out by the side door while Eliza was setting tea, and she
was a long time gone; she was not in to tea. When Eliza asked Oswald
where she was he said he did not know, but perhaps she was tidying
her corner drawer. Girls often do this, and it takes a long time. Noel
coughed a good bit after tea, and asked for Alice.

Oswald told him she was doing something and it was a secret. Oswald did
not tell any lies even to save his sister. When Alice came back she was
very quiet, but she whispered to Oswald that it was all right. When
it was rather late Eliza said she was going out to post a letter. This
always takes her an hour, because she _will_ go to the post-office
across the Heath instead of the pillar-box, because once a boy dropped
fusees in our pillar-box and burnt the letters. It was not any of us;
Eliza told us about it. And when there was a knock at the door a long
time after we thought it was Eliza come back, and that she had forgotten
the back-door key. We made H. O. go down to open the door, because it
is his place to run about: his legs are younger than ours. And we heard
boots on the stairs besides H. O.’s, and we listened spellbound till the
door opened, and it was Albert’s uncle. He looked very tired.

‘I am glad you’ve come,’ Oswald said. ‘Alice began to think Noel--’

Alice stopped me, and her face was very red, her nose was shiny too,
with having cried so much before tea.