She said, ‘I only said I thought Noel ought to have the doctor. Don’t
you think he ought?’ She got hold of Albert’s uncle and held on to him.

‘Let’s have a look at you, young man,’ said Albert’s uncle, and he sat
down on the edge of the bed. It is a rather shaky bed, the bar that
keeps it steady underneath got broken when we were playing burglars last
winter. It was our crowbar. He began to feel Noel’s pulse, and went on
talking.

‘It was revealed to the Arab physician as he made merry in his tents on
the wild plains of Hastings that the Presence had a cold in its head. So
he immediately seated himself on the magic carpet, and bade it bear him
hither, only pausing in the flight to purchase a few sweetmeats in the
bazaar.’

He pulled out a jolly lot of chocolate and some butterscotch, and grapes
for Noel. When we had all said thank you, he went on.

‘The physician’s are the words of wisdom: it’s high time this kid was
asleep. I have spoken. Ye have my leave to depart.’

So we bunked, and Dora and Albert’s uncle made Noel comfortable for the
night.

Then they came to the nursery which we had gone down to, and he sat down
in the Guy Fawkes chair and said, ‘Now then.’

Alice said, ‘You may tell them what I did. I daresay they’ll all be in a
wax, but I don’t care.’

‘I think you were very wise,’ said Albert’s uncle, pulling her close to
him to sit on his knee. ‘I am very glad you telegraphed.’

So then Oswald understood what Alice’s secret was. She had gone out and
sent a telegram to Albert’s uncle at Hastings. But Oswald thought she
might have told him. Afterwards she told me what she had put in the
telegram. It was, ‘Come home. We have given Noel a cold, and I think we
are killing him.’ With the address it came to tenpence-halfpenny.

Then Albert’s uncle began to ask questions, and it all came out,
how Dicky had tried to catch the cold, but the cold had gone to Noel
instead, and about the medicines and all. Albert’s uncle looked very
serious.

‘Look here,’ he said, ‘You’re old enough not to play the fool like this.
Health is the best thing you’ve got; you ought to know better than to
risk it. You might have killed your little brother with your precious
medicines. You’ve had a lucky escape, certainly. But poor Noel!’

‘Oh, do you think he’s going to die?’ Alice asked that, and she was
crying again.

‘No, no,’ said Albert’s uncle; ‘but look here. Do you see how silly
you’ve been? And I thought you promised your Father--’ And then he gave
us a long talking-to. He can make you feel most awfully small. At last
he stopped, and we said we were very sorry, and he said, ‘You know I
promised to take you all to the pantomime?’