None of us had any money except Eliza, and she wouldn’t give us any
unless we said what for; and of course we could not do that because of
the honour of the family. And Oswald was anxious to get the sixpence to
give to the telegraph people because he feared that the badness of that
sixpence might have been found out, and that the police might come for
Alice at any moment. I don’t think I ever had such an unhappy day. Of
course we could have written to Albert’s uncle, but it would have taken
a long time, and every moment of delay added to Alice’s danger. We
thought and thought, but we couldn’t think of any way to get that
sixpence. It seems a small sum, but you see Alice’s liberty depended
on it. It was quite late in the afternoon when I met Mrs Leslie on the
Parade. She had a brown fur coat and a lot of yellow flowers in her
hands. She stopped to speak to me, and asked me how the Poet was. I told
her he had a cold, and I wondered whether she would lend me sixpence if
I asked her, but I could not make up my mind how to begin to say it. It
is a hard thing to say--much harder than you would think. She talked to
me for a bit, and then she suddenly got into a cab, and said--

‘I’d no idea it was so late,’ and told the man where to go. And just as
she started she shoved the yellow flowers through the window and said,
‘For the sick poet, with my love,’ and was driven off.

Gentle reader, I will not conceal from you what Oswald did. He knew all
about not disgracing the family, and he did not like doing what I am
going to say: and they were really Noel’s flowers, only he could not
have sent them to Hastings, and Oswald knew he would say ‘Yes’ if Oswald
asked him. Oswald sacrificed his family pride because of his little
sister’s danger. I do not say he was a noble boy--I just tell you what
he did, and you can decide for yourself about the nobleness.

He put on his oldest clothes--they’re much older than any you would
think he had if you saw him when he was tidy--and he took those yellow
chrysanthemums and he walked with them to Greenwich Station and waited
for the trains bringing people from London. He sold those flowers in
penny bunches and got tenpence. Then he went to the telegraph office at
Lewisham, and said to the lady there:

‘A little girl gave you a bad sixpence yesterday. Here are six good
pennies.’