Eliza hates us to be sent to bed early, because it means her having to
bring meals up, and it means lighting the fire in Noel’s room ever so
much earlier than usual. He had to have a fire because he still had a
aunt once gave to Alice, so Eliza brought up an extra scuttle of coals,
and when the greengrocer came with the potatoes (he is always late on
Saturdays) she got some chestnuts from him. So that when we heard Father
go out after his dinner, there was a jolly fire in Noel’s room, and
we were able to go in and be Red Indians in blankets most comfortably.
Eliza had gone out; she says she gets things cheaper on Saturday
nights. She has a great friend, who sells fish at a shop, and he is
very generous, and lets her have herrings for less than half the natural
price.

So we were all alone in the house; Pincher was out with Eliza, and we
talked about robbers. And Dora thought it would be a dreadful trade, but
Dicky said--

‘I think it would be very interesting. And you would only rob rich
people, and be very generous to the poor and needy, like Claude Duval.’
Dora said, ‘It is wrong to be a robber.’

‘Yes,’ said Alice, ‘you would never know a happy hour. Think of trying
to sleep with the stolen jewels under your bed, and remembering all the
quantities of policemen and detectives that there are in the world!’

‘There are ways of being robbers that are not wrong,’ said Noel; ‘if you
can rob a robber it is a right act.’

‘But you can’t,’ said Dora; ‘he is too clever, and besides, it’s wrong
anyway.’

‘Yes you can, and it isn’t; and murdering him with boiling oil is a
right act, too, so there!’ said Noel. ‘What about Ali Baba? Now then!’
And we felt it was a score for Noel.

‘What would you do if there _was_ a robber?’ said Alice.

H. O. said he would kill him with boiling oil; but Alice explained that
she meant a real robber--now--this minute--in the house.

Oswald and Dicky did not say; but Noel said he thought it would only be
fair to ask the robber quite politely and quietly to go away, and then
if he didn’t you could deal with him.

Now what I am going to tell you is a very strange and wonderful thing,
and I hope you will be able to believe it. I should not, if a boy told
me, unless I knew him to be a man of honour, and perhaps not then unless
he gave his sacred word. But it is true, all the same, and it only shows
that the days of romance and daring deeds are not yet at an end.