Alice was just asking Noel _how_ he would deal with the robber who
wouldn’t go if he was asked politely and quietly, when we heard a noise
downstairs--quite a plain noise, not the kind of noise you fancy you
hear. It was like somebody moving a chair. We held our breath and
listened and then came another noise, like some one poking a fire.
Now, you remember there was no one _to_ poke a fire or move a chair
downstairs, because Eliza and Father were both out. They could not have
come in without our hearing them, because the front door is as hard to
shut as the back one, and whichever you go in by you have to give a slam
that you can hear all down the street.

H. O. and Alice and Dora caught hold of each other’s blankets and looked
at Dicky and Oswald, and every one was quite pale. And Noel whispered--

‘It’s ghosts, I know it is’--and then we listened again, but there was
no more noise. Presently Dora said in a whisper--

‘Whatever shall we do? Oh, whatever shall we do--what _shall_ we do?’
And she kept on saying it till we had to tell her to shut up.

O reader, have you ever been playing Red Indians in blankets round a
bedroom fire in a house where you thought there was no one but you--and
then suddenly heard a noise like a chair, and a fire being poked,
downstairs? Unless you have you will not be able to imagine at all what
it feels like. It was not like in books; our hair did not stand on end
at all, and we never said ‘Hist!’ once, but our feet got very cold,
though we were in blankets by the fire, and the insides of Oswald’s
hands got warm and wet, and his nose was cold like a dog’s, and his ears
were burning hot.

The girls said afterwards that they shivered with terror, and their
teeth chattered, but we did not see or hear this at the time.

‘Shall we open the window and call police?’ said Dora; and then Oswald
suddenly thought of something, and he breathed more freely and he said--

‘I _know_ it’s not ghosts, and I don’t believe it’s robbers. I expect
it’s a stray cat got in when the coals came this morning, and she’s
been hiding in the cellar, and now she’s moving about. Let’s go down and
see.’

The girls wouldn’t, of course; but I could see that they breathed more
freely too. But Dicky said, ‘All right; I will if you will.’

H. O. said, ‘Do you think it’s _really_ a cat?’ So we said he had better
stay with the girls. And of course after that we had to let him and
Alice both come. Dora said if we took Noel down with his cold, she would
scream ‘Fire!’ and ‘Murder!’ and she didn’t mind if the whole street
heard.