So Noel agreed to be getting his clothes on, and the rest of us said we
would go down and look for the cat.

Now Oswald _said_ that about the cat, and it made it easier to go down,
but in his inside he did not feel at all sure that it might not be
robbers after all. Of course, we had often talked about robbers before,
but it is very different when you sit in a room and listen and listen
and listen; and Oswald felt somehow that it would be easier to go down
and see what it was, than to wait, and listen, and wait, and wait, and
listen, and wait, and then perhaps to hear _it_, whatever it was, come
creeping slowly up the stairs as softly as _it_ could with _its_ boots
off, and the stairs creaking, towards the room where we were with the
door open in case of Eliza coming back suddenly, and all dark on the
landings. And then it would have been just as bad, and it would have
lasted longer, and you would have known you were a coward besides. Dicky
says he felt all these same things. Many people would say we were young
heroes to go down as we did; so I have tried to explain, because no
young hero wishes to have more credit than he deserves.

The landing gas was turned down low--just a blue bead--and we four went
out very softly, wrapped in our blankets, and we stood on the top of the
stairs a good long time before we began to go down. And we listened and
listened till our ears buzzed.

And Oswald whispered to Dicky, and Dicky went into our room and fetched
the large toy pistol that is a foot long, and that has the trigger
broken, and I took it because I am the eldest; and I don’t think either
of us thought it was the cat now. But Alice and H. O. did. Dicky got the
poker out of Noel’s room, and told Dora it was to settle the cat with
when we caught her.

Then Oswald whispered, ‘Let’s play at burglars; Dicky and I are armed
to the teeth, we will go first. You keep a flight behind us, and be
a reinforcement if we are attacked. Or you can retreat and defend the
women and children in the fortress, if you’d rather.’

But they said they would be a reinforcement.

Oswald’s teeth chattered a little when he spoke. It was not with
anything else except cold.