So Dicky and Oswald crept down, and when we got to the bottom of the
stairs, we saw Father’s study door just ajar, and the crack of light.
And Oswald was so pleased to see the light, knowing that burglars prefer
the dark, or at any rate the dark lantern, that he felt really sure it
_was_ the cat after all, and then he thought it would be fun to make
the others upstairs think it was really a robber. So he cocked the
pistol--you can cock it, but it doesn’t go off--and he said, ‘Come on,
Dick!’ and he rushed at the study door and burst into the room, crying,
‘Surrender! you are discovered! Surrender, or I fire! Throw up your
hands!’

And, as he finished saying it, he saw before him, standing on the study
hearthrug, a Real Robber. There was no mistake about it. Oswald was
sure it was a robber, because it had a screwdriver in its hands, and was
standing near the cupboard door that H. O. broke the lock off; and there
were gimlets and screws and things on the floor. There is nothing in
that cupboard but old ledgers and magazines and the tool chest, but of
course, a robber could not know that beforehand.

When Oswald saw that there really was a robber, and that he was so
heavily armed with the screwdriver, he did not feel comfortable. But he
kept the pistol pointed at the robber, and--you will hardly believe it,
but it is true--the robber threw down the screwdriver clattering on the
other tools, and he _did_ throw up his hands, and said--

‘I surrender; don’t shoot me! How many of you are there?’

So Dicky said, ‘You are outnumbered. Are you armed?’

And the robber said, ‘No, not in the least.’

And Oswald said, still pointing the pistol, and feeling very strong and
brave and as if he was in a book, ‘Turn out your pockets.’

The robber did: and while he turned them out, we looked at him. He was
of the middle height, and clad in a black frock-coat and grey trousers.
His boots were a little gone at the sides, and his shirt-cuffs were
a bit frayed, but otherwise he was of gentlemanly demeanour. He had a
thin, wrinkled face, with big, light eyes that sparkled, and then looked
soft very queerly, and a short beard. In his youth it must have been of
a fair golden colour, but now it was tinged with grey. Oswald was sorry
for him, especially when he saw that one of his pockets had a large hole
in it, and that he had nothing in his pockets but letters and string and
three boxes of matches, and a pipe and a handkerchief and a thin tobacco
pouch and two pennies. We made him put all the things on the table, and
then he said--

‘Well, you’ve caught me; what are you going to do with me? Police?’