Alice and H. O. had come down to be reinforcements, when they heard a
shout, and when Alice saw that it was a Real Robber, and that he had
surrendered, she clapped her hands and said, ‘Bravo, boys!’ and so did
H. O. And now she said, ‘If he gives his word of honour not to escape,
I shouldn’t call the police: it seems a pity. Wait till Father comes
home.’

The robber agreed to this, and gave his word of honour, and asked if he
might put on a pipe, and we said ‘Yes,’ and he sat in Father’s armchair
and warmed his boots, which steamed, and I sent H. O. and Alice to
put on some clothes and tell the others, and bring down Dicky’s and my
knickerbockers, and the rest of the chestnuts.

And they all came, and we sat round the fire, and it was jolly. The
robber was very friendly, and talked to us a great deal.

‘I wasn’t always in this low way of business,’ he said, when Noel said
something about the things he had turned out of his pockets. ‘It’s
a great come-down to a man like me. But, if I must be caught, it’s
something to be caught by brave young heroes like you. My stars! How you
did bolt into the room,--“Surrender, and up with your hands!” You might
have been born and bred to the thief-catching.’

Oswald is sorry if it was mean, but he could not own up just then that
he did not think there was any one in the study when he did that brave
if rash act. He has told since.

‘And what made you think there was any one in the house?’ the robber
asked, when he had thrown his head back, and laughed for quite half a
minute. So we told him. And he applauded our valour, and Alice and H.
O. explained that they would have said ‘Surrender,’ too, only they were
reinforcements. The robber ate some of the chestnuts--and we sat and
wondered when Father would come home, and what he would say to us for
our intrepid conduct. And the robber told us of all the things he had
done before he began to break into houses. Dicky picked up the tools
from the floor, and suddenly he said--

‘Why, this is Father’s screwdriver and his gimlets, and all! Well, I do
call it jolly cheek to pick a man’s locks with his own tools!’

‘True, true,’ said the robber. ‘It is cheek, of the jolliest! But you
see I’ve come down in the world. I was a highway robber once, but
horses are so expensive to hire--five shillings an hour, you know--and
I couldn’t afford to keep them. The highwayman business isn’t what it
was.’

‘What about a bike?’ said H. O.