But the robber thought cycles were low--and besides you couldn’t go
across country with them when occasion arose, as you could with a trusty
steed. And he talked of highwaymen as if he knew just how we liked
hearing it.

Then he told us how he had been a pirate captain--and how he had sailed
over waves mountains high, and gained rich prizes--and how he _did_
begin to think that here he had found a profession to his mind.

‘I don’t say there are no ups and downs in it,’ he said, ‘especially
in stormy weather. But what a trade! And a sword at your side, and the
Jolly Roger flying at the peak, and a prize in sight. And all the black
mouths of your guns pointed at the laden trader--and the wind in your
favour, and your trusty crew ready to live and die for you! Oh--but it’s
a grand life!’

I did feel so sorry for him. He used such nice words, and he had a
gentleman’s voice.

‘I’m sure you weren’t brought up to be a pirate,’ said Dora. She had
dressed even to her collar--and made Noel do it too--but the rest of us
were in blankets with just a few odd things put on anyhow underneath.

The robber frowned and sighed.

‘No,’ he said, ‘I was brought up to the law. I was at Balliol, bless
your hearts, and that’s true anyway.’ He sighed again, and looked hard
at the fire.

‘That was my Father’s college,’ H. O. was beginning, but Dicky
said--‘Why did you leave off being a pirate?’

‘A pirate?’ he said, as if he had not been thinking of such things.

‘Oh, yes; why I gave it up because--because I could not get over the
dreadful sea-sickness.’

‘Nelson was sea-sick,’ said Oswald.

‘Ah,’ said the robber; ‘but I hadn’t his luck or his pluck, or
something. He stuck to it and won Trafalgar, didn’t he? “Kiss me,
Hardy”--and all that, eh? _I_ couldn’t stick to it--I had to resign. And
nobody kissed _me_.’

I saw by his understanding about Nelson that he was really a man who had
been to a good school as well as to Balliol.

Then we asked him, ‘And what did you do then?’

And Alice asked if he was ever a coiner, and we told him how we had
thought we’d caught the desperate gang next door, and he was very much
interested and said he was glad he had never taken to coining.

‘Besides, the coins are so ugly nowadays,’ he said, ‘no one could really
find any pleasure in making them. And it’s a hole-and-corner business
at the best, isn’t it?--and it must be a very thirsty one--with the hot
metal and furnaces and things.’

And again he looked at the fire.