‘Surrender! You are discovered! Surrender, or I’ll fire! Throw up your
hands!’ And Dicky and I rattled the tongs and shovel so that he might
know there were more of us, all bristling with weapons.

And we heard a husky voice in the kitchen saying--

‘All right, governor! Stow that scent sprinkler. I’ll give in. Blowed if
I ain’t pretty well sick of the job, anyway.’

Then we went in. Our robber was standing in the grandest manner with his
legs very wide apart, and the pistol pointing at the cowering burglar.
The burglar was a large man who did not mean to have a beard, I think,
but he had got some of one, and a red comforter, and a fur cap, and his
face was red and his voice was thick. How different from our own robber!
The burglar had a dark lantern, and he was standing by the plate-basket.
When we had lit the gas we all thought he was very like what a burglar
ought to be.

He did not look as if he could ever have been a pirate or a highwayman,
or anything really dashing or noble, and he scowled and shuffled his
feet and said: ‘Well, go on: why don’t yer fetch the pleece?’

‘Upon my word, I don’t know,’ said our robber, rubbing his chin.
‘Oswald, why don’t we fetch the police?’

It is not every robber that I would stand Christian names from, I can
tell you but just then I didn’t think of that. I just said--‘Do you mean
I’m to fetch one?’

Our robber looked at the burglar and said nothing.

Then the burglar began to speak very fast, and to look different ways
with his hard, shiny little eyes.

‘Lookee ‘ere, governor,’ he said, ‘I was stony broke, so help me, I
was. And blessed if I’ve nicked a haporth of your little lot. You know
yourself there ain’t much to tempt a bloke,’ he shook the plate-basket
as if he was angry with it, and the yellowy spoons and forks rattled. ‘I
was just a-looking through this ‘ere Bank-ollerday show, when you come.
Let me off, sir. Come now, I’ve got kids of my own at home, strike me
if I ain’t--same as yours--I’ve got a nipper just about ‘is size, and
what’ll come of them if I’m lagged? I ain’t been in it long, sir, and I
ain’t ‘andy at it.’

‘No,’ said our robber; ‘you certainly are not.’ Alice and the others
had come down by now to see what was happening. Alice told me afterwards
they thought it really was the cat this time.

‘No, I ain’t ‘andy, as you say, sir, and if you let me off this once
I’ll chuck the whole blooming bizz; rake my civvy, I will. Don’t be hard
on a cove, mister; think of the missis and the kids. I’ve got one just
the cut of little missy there bless ‘er pretty ‘eart.’

‘Your family certainly fits your circumstances very nicely,’ said our
robber. Then Alice said--