Then we all jumped up. We did like him so much, and it seemed so unfair
that he should be sent to prison, and the horrid, lumping big burglar
not.

And Alice said, ‘Oh, _no_--run! Dicky will let you out at the back door.
Oh, do go, go _now_.’

And we all said, ‘Yes, _go_,’ and pulled him towards the door, and gave
him his hat and stick and the things out of his pockets.

But Father’s latchkey was in the door, and it was too late.

Father came in quickly, purring with the cold, and began to say, ‘It’s
all right, Foulkes, I’ve got--’ And then he stopped short and stared
at us. Then he said, in the voice we all hate, ‘Children, what is the
meaning of all this?’ And for a minute nobody spoke.

Then my Father said, ‘Foulkes, I must really apologize for these very
naughty--’ And then our robber rubbed his hands and laughed, and cried
out:

or I fire,” and all the rest of it. My word, Bastable, but you’ve got
some kids worth having! I wish my Denny had their pluck.’

Then we began to understand, and it was like being knocked down, it was
so sudden. And our robber told us he wasn’t a robber after all. He was
only an old college friend of my Father’s, and he had come after dinner,
when Father was just trying to mend the lock H. O. had broken, to ask
Father to get him a letter to a doctor about his little boy Denny, who
was ill. And Father had gone over the Heath to Vanbrugh Park to see some
rich people he knows and get the letter. And he had left Mr Foulkes to
wait till he came back, because it was important to know at once whether
Father could get the letter, and if he couldn’t Mr Foulkes would have
had to try some one else directly.

We were dumb with amazement.

Our robber told my Father about the other burglar, and said he was
sorry he’d let him escape, but my Father said, ‘Oh, it’s all right: poor
beggar; if he really had kids at home: you never can tell--forgive us
our debts, don’t you know; but tell me about the first business. It must
have been moderately entertaining.’