So Oswald said, ‘Fair priestess, we do greatly desire to find gold
beneath our land, therefore we pray thee practise with the divining-rod,
and tell us where we can find it.’

‘Do ye desire to fashion of it helms and hauberks?’ said Alice.

‘Yes,’ said Noel; ‘and chains and ouches.’

‘I bet you don’t know what an “ouch” is,’ said Dicky.

‘Yes I do, so there!’ said Noel. ‘It’s a carcanet. I looked it out in
the dicker, now then!’ We asked him what a carcanet was, but he wouldn’t
say.

‘And we want to make fair goblets of the gold,’ said Oswald.

‘Yes, to drink coconut milk out of,’ said H. O.

‘And we desire to build fair palaces of it,’ said Dicky.

‘And to buy things,’ said Dora; ‘a great many things. New Sunday frocks
and hats and kid gloves and--’

She would have gone on for ever so long only we reminded her that we

tied the old blue and yellow antimacassar over her head, and she said--

‘If your intentions are correct, fear nothing and follow me.’

And she went down into the hall. We all followed chanting ‘Heroes.’ It
is a gloomy thing the girls learnt at the High School, and we always use
it when we want a priestly chant.

Alice stopped short by the hat-stand, and held up her hands as well as
she could for the tablecloth, and said--

‘Now, great altar of the golden idol, yield me the divining-rod that I
may use it for the good of the suffering people.’

The umbrella-stand was the altar of the golden idol, and it yielded her
the old school umbrella. She carried it between her palms.

‘Now,’ she said, ‘I shall sing the magic chant. You mustn’t say
anything, but just follow wherever I go--like follow my leader, you
know--and when there is gold underneath the magic rod will twist in the
hand of the priestess like a live thing that seeks to be free. Then you
will dig, and the golden treasure will be revealed. H. O., if you make
that clatter with your boots they’ll come and tell us not to. Now come
on all of you.’

So she went upstairs and down and into every room. We followed her
on tiptoe, and Alice sang as she went. What she sang is not out of a
book--Noel made it up while she was dressing up for the priestess.

Ashen rod cold
    That here I hold,
    Teach me where to find the gold.

When we came to where Eliza was, she said, ‘Get along with you’; but
Dora said it was only a game, and we wouldn’t touch anything, and our
boots were quite clean, and Eliza might as well let us. So she did.