It was all right for the priestess, but it was a little dull for the
rest of us, because she wouldn’t let us sing, too; so we said we’d had
enough of it, and if she couldn’t find the gold we’d leave off and play
something else. The priestess said, ‘All right, wait a minute,’ and went
on singing. Then we all followed her back into the nursery, where the
carpet was up and the boards smelt of soft soap. Then she said, ‘It
moves, it moves! Once more the choral hymn!’ So we sang ‘Heroes’ again,
and in the middle the umbrella dropped from her hands.

‘The magic rod has spoken,’ said Alice; ‘dig here, and that with courage
and despatch.’ We didn’t quite see how to dig, but we all began to
scratch on the floor with our hands, but the priestess said, ‘Don’t
be so silly! It’s the place where they come to do the gas. The board’s
loose. Dig an you value your lives, for ere sundown the dragon who
guards this spoil will return in his fiery fury and make you his
unresisting prey.’

So we dug--that is, we got the loose board up. And Alice threw up her
arms and cried--

‘See the rich treasure--the gold in thick layers, with silver and
diamonds stuck in it!’

‘Like currants in cake,’ said H. O.

‘It’s a lovely treasure,’ said Dicky yawning. ‘Let’s come back and carry
it away another day.’

But Alice was kneeling by the hole.

‘Let me feast my eyes on the golden splendour,’ she said, ‘hidden these
long centuries from the human eye. Behold how the magic rod has led
us to treasures more--Oswald, don’t push so!--more bright than ever
monarch--I say, there _is_ something down there, really. I saw it
shine!’

We thought she was kidding, but when she began to try to get into the
hole, which was much too small, we saw she meant it, so I said, ‘Let’s
have a squint,’ and I looked, but I couldn’t see anything, even when I
lay down on my stomach. The others lay down on their stomachs too and
tried to see, all but Noel, who stood and looked at us and said we were
the great serpents come down to drink at the magic pool. He wanted to be
the knight and slay the great serpents with his good sword--he even drew
the umbrella ready--but Alice said, ‘All right, we will in a minute. But
now--I’m sure I saw it; do get a match, Noel, there’s a dear.’

‘What did you see?’ asked Noel, beginning to go for the matches very
slowly.

‘Something bright, away in the corner under the board against the beam.’

‘Perhaps it was a rat’s eye,’ Noel said, ‘or a snake’s,’ and we did
not put our heads quite so close to the hole till he came back with the
matches.