Then I struck a match, and Alice cried, ‘There it is!’ And there it was,
and it was a half-sovereign, partly dusty and partly bright. We think
perhaps a mouse, disturbed by the carpets being taken up, may have
brushed the dust of years from part of the half-sovereign with his tail.
We can’t imagine how it came there, only Dora thinks she remembers once
when H. O. was very little Mother gave him some money to hold, and he
dropped it, and it rolled all over the floor. So we think perhaps this
was part of it. We were very glad. H. O. wanted to go out at once and
buy a mask he had seen for fourpence. It had been a shilling mask, but
now it was going very cheap because Guy Fawkes’ Day was over, and it was
a little cracked at the top. But Dora said, ‘I don’t know that it’s our
money. Let’s wait and ask Father.’

But H. O. did not care about waiting, and I felt for him. Dora is rather
like grown-ups in that way; she does not seem to understand that when
you want a thing you do want it, and that you don’t wish to wait, even a
minute.

So we went and asked Albert-next-door’s uncle. He was pegging away at
one of the rotten novels he has to write to make his living, but he said
we weren’t interrupting him at all.

‘My hero’s folly has involved him in a difficulty,’ he said. ‘It is his
own fault. I will leave him to meditate on the incredible fatuity--the
hare-brained recklessness--which have brought him to this pass. It will
be a lesson to him. I, meantime, will give myself unreservedly to the
pleasures of your conversation.’

That’s one thing I like Albert’s uncle for. He always talks like a book,
and yet you can always understand what he means. I think he is more like
us, inside of his mind, than most grown-up people are. He can pretend
beautifully. I never met anyone else so good at it, except our robber,
and we began it, with him. But it was Albert’s uncle who first taught
us how to make people talk like books when you’re playing things, and he
made us learn to tell a story straight from the beginning, not starting
in the middle like most people do. So now Oswald remembered what he had
been told, as he generally does, and began at the beginning, but when he
came to where Alice said she was the priestess, Albert’s uncle said--

‘Let the priestess herself set forth the tale in fitting speech.’

So Alice said, ‘O high priest of the great idol, the humblest of thy
slaves took the school umbrella for a divining-rod, and sang the song of
inver--what’s-it’s-name?’