‘Invocation perhaps?’ said Albert’s uncle. ‘Yes; and then I went about
and about and the others got tired, so the divining-rod fell on a
certain spot, and I said, “Dig”, and we dug--it was where the loose
board is for the gas men--and then there really and truly was a
half-sovereign lying under the boards, and here it is.’

Albert’s uncle took it and looked at it.

‘The great high priest will bite it to see if it’s good,’ he said, and
he did. ‘I congratulate you,’ he went on; ‘you are indeed among those
favoured by the Immortals. First you find half-crowns in the garden, and
now this. The high priest advises you to tell your Father, and ask if
you may keep it. My hero has become penitent, but impatient. I must pull
him out of this scrape. Ye have my leave to depart.’

Of course we know from Kipling that that means, ‘You’d better bunk, and
be sharp about it,’ so we came away. I do like Albert’s uncle.

I shall be like that when I’m a man. He gave us our Jungle books, and he
is awfully clever, though he does have to write grown-up tales.

We told Father about it that night. He was very kind. He said we
might certainly have the half-sovereign, and he hoped we should enjoy
ourselves with our treasure-trove.

Then he said, ‘Your dear Mother’s Indian Uncle is coming to dinner here
to-morrow night. So will you not drag the furniture about overhead,
please, more than you’re absolutely obliged; and H. O. might wear
slippers or something. I can always distinguish the note of H. O.’s
boots.’

We said we would be very quiet, and Father went on--

‘This Indian Uncle is not used to children, and he is coming to talk
business with me. It is really important that he should be quiet. Do you
think, Dora, that perhaps bed at six for H. O. and Noel--’

But H. O. said, ‘Father, I really and truly won’t make a noise. I’ll
stand on my head all the evening sooner than disturb the Indian Uncle
with my boots.’

And Alice said Noel never made a row anyhow. So Father laughed and
said, ‘All right.’ And he said we might do as we liked with the
half-sovereign. ‘Only for goodness’ sake don’t try to go in for business
with it,’ he said. ‘It’s always a mistake to go into business with an
insufficient capital.’