I don’t believe the dinner was very nice. Something got burned I’m
sure--for we smelt it. It was an extra smell, besides the mutton.

I know that got burned. Eliza wouldn’t have any of us in the kitchen
except Dora--till dinner was over. Then we got what was left of the
dessert, and had it on the stairs--just round the corner where they
can’t see you from the hall, unless the first landing gas is lighted.
Suddenly the study door opened and the Uncle came out and went and felt
in his greatcoat pocket. It was his cigar-case he wanted. We saw that
afterwards. We got a much better view of him then. He didn’t look like
an Indian but just like a kind of brown, big Englishman, and of course
he didn’t see us, but we heard him mutter to himself--

‘Shocking bad dinner! Eh!--what?’

When he went back to the study he didn’t shut the door properly. That
door has always been a little tiresome since the day we took the lock
off to get out the pencil sharpener H. O. had shoved into the keyhole.
We didn’t listen--really and truly--but the Indian Uncle has a very big
voice, and Father was not going to be beaten by a poor Indian in talking
or anything else--so he spoke up too, like a man, and I heard him say it
was a very good business, and only wanted a little capital--and he said
it as if it was an imposition he had learned, and he hated having to
say it. The Uncle said, ‘Pooh, pooh!’ to that, and then he said he
was afraid that what that same business wanted was not capital but
management. Then I heard my Father say, ‘It is not a pleasant subject:
I am sorry I introduced it. Suppose we change it, sir. Let me fill your
glass.’ Then the poor Indian said something about vintage--and that
a poor, broken-down man like he was couldn’t be too careful. And then
Father said, ‘Well, whisky then,’ and afterwards they talked about
Native Races and Imperial something or other and it got very dull.

So then Oswald remembered that you must not hear what people do not
intend you to hear--even if you are not listening and he said, ‘We ought
not to stay here any longer. Perhaps they would not like us to hear--’

Alice said, ‘Oh, do you think it could possibly matter?’ and went and
shut the study door softly but quite tight. So it was no use staying
there any longer, and we went to the nursery.

Then Noel said, ‘Now I understand. Of course my Father is making a
banquet for the Indian, because he is a poor, broken-down man. We might
have known that from “Lo, the poor Indian!” you know.’

We all agreed with him, and we were glad to have the thing explained,
because we had not understood before what Father wanted to have people
to dinner for--and not let us come in.