‘Poor people are very proud,’ said Alice, ‘and I expect Father thought
the Indian would be ashamed, if all of us children knew how poor he
was.’

Then Dora said, ‘Poverty is no disgrace. We should honour honest
Poverty.’

And we all agreed that that was so.

‘I wish his dinner had not been so nasty,’ Dora said, while Oswald put
lumps of coal on the fire with his fingers, so as not to make a noise.
He is a very thoughtful boy, and he did not wipe his fingers on his
trouser leg as perhaps Noel or H. O. would have done, but he just rubbed
them on Dora’s handkerchief while she was talking.

‘I am afraid the dinner was horrid.’ Dora went on. ‘The table looked
very nice with the flowers we got. I set it myself, and Eliza made me
borrow the silver spoons and forks from Albert-next-door’s Mother.’

‘I hope the poor Indian is honest,’ said Dicky gloomily, ‘when you are a
poor, broken-down man silver spoons must be a great temptation.’

Oswald told him not to talk such tommy-rot because the Indian was a
relation, so of course he couldn’t do anything dishonourable. And Dora
said it was all right any way, because she had washed up the spoons and
forks herself and counted them, and they were all there, and she had
put them into their wash-leather bag, and taken them back to
Albert-next-door’s Mother.

‘And the brussels sprouts were all wet and swimmy,’ she went on, ‘and
the potatoes looked grey--and there were bits of black in the gravy--and
the mutton was bluey-red and soft in the middle. I saw it when it came
out. The apple-pie looked very nice--but it wasn’t quite done in the
apply part. The other thing that was burnt--you must have smelt it, was
the soup.’

‘It is a pity,’ said Oswald; ‘I don’t suppose he gets a good dinner
every day.’

‘No more do we,’ said H. O., ‘but we shall to-morrow.’

I thought of all the things we had bought with our half-sovereign--the
rabbit and the sweets and the almonds and raisins and figs and the
coconut: and I thought of the nasty mutton and things, and while I was
thinking about it all Alice said--

‘Let’s ask the poor Indian to come to dinner with _us_ to-morrow.’ I
should have said it myself if she had given me time.

We got the little ones to go to bed by promising to put a note on their
dressing-table saying what had happened, so that they might know the
first thing in the morning, or in the middle of the night if they
happened to wake up, and then we elders arranged everything.

I waited by the back door, and when the Uncle was beginning to go Dicky
was to drop a marble down between the banisters for a signal, so that I
could run round and meet the Uncle as he came out.