This seems like deceit, but if you are a thoughtful and considerate boy
you will understand that we could not go down and say to the Uncle in
the hall under Father’s eye, ‘Father has given you a beastly, nasty
dinner, but if you will come to dinner with us tomorrow, we will show
you our idea of good things to eat.’ You will see, if you think it over,
that this would not have been at all polite to Father.

So when the Uncle left, Father saw him to the door and let him out, and
then went back to the study, looking very sad, Dora says.

As the poor Indian came down our steps he saw me there at the gate.

I did not mind his being poor, and I said, ‘Good evening, Uncle,’ just
as politely as though he had been about to ascend into one of the gilded
chariots of the rich and affluent, instead of having to walk to the
station a quarter of a mile in the mud, unless he had the money for a
tram fare.

‘Good evening, Uncle.’ I said it again, for he stood staring at me.
I don’t suppose he was used to politeness from boys--some boys are
anything but--especially to the Aged Poor.

So I said, ‘Good evening, Uncle,’ yet once again. Then he said--

‘Time you were in bed, young man. Eh!--what?’

Then I saw I must speak plainly with him, man to man. So I did. I said--

‘You’ve been dining with my Father, and we couldn’t help hearing you
say the dinner was shocking. So we thought as you’re an Indian, perhaps
you’re very poor’--I didn’t like to tell him we had heard the dreadful
truth from his own lips, so I went on, ‘because of “Lo, the poor
Indian”--you know--and you can’t get a good dinner every day. And we are
very sorry if you’re poor; and won’t you come and have dinner with
us to-morrow--with us children, I mean? It’s a very, very good
dinner--rabbit, and hardbake, and coconut--and you needn’t mind us
knowing you’re poor, because we know honourable poverty is no disgrace,
and--’ I could have gone on much longer, but he interrupted me to
say--‘Upon my word! And what’s your name, eh?’

‘Oswald Bastable,’ I said; and I do hope you people who are reading this
story have not guessed before that I was Oswald all the time.

‘Oswald Bastable, eh? Bless my soul!’ said the poor Indian. ‘Yes, I’ll
dine with you, Mr Oswald Bastable, with all the pleasure in life. Very
kind and cordial invitation, I’m sure. Good night, sir. At one o’clock,
I presume?’

‘Yes, at one,’ I said. ‘Good night, sir.’

Then I went in and told the others, and we wrote a paper and put it on
the boy’s dressing-table, and it said--

‘The poor Indian is coming at one. He seemed very grateful to me for my
kindness.’