We did not tell Father that the Uncle was coming to dinner with us,
for the polite reason that I have explained before. But we had to tell
Eliza; so we said a friend was coming to dinner and we wanted everything
very nice. I think she thought it was Albert-next-door, but she was in
a good temper that day, and she agreed to cook the rabbit and to make a
pudding with currants in it. And when one o’clock came the Indian Uncle
came too. I let him in and helped him off with his greatcoat, which was
all furry inside, and took him straight to the nursery. We were to have
dinner there as usual, for we had decided from the first that he would
enjoy himself more if he was not made a stranger of. We agreed to treat
him as one of ourselves, because if we were too polite, he might think
it was our pride because he was poor.

He shook hands with us all and asked our ages, and what schools we went
to, and shook his head when we said we were having a holiday just now. I
felt rather uncomfortable--I always do when they talk about schools--and
I couldn’t think of anything to say to show him we meant to treat him
as one of ourselves. I did ask if he played cricket. He said he had not
played lately. And then no one said anything till dinner came in. We had
all washed our faces and hands and brushed our hair before he came in,
and we all looked very nice, especially Oswald, who had had his hair
cut that very morning. When Eliza had brought in the rabbit and gone
out again, we looked at each other in silent despair, like in books.
It seemed as if it were going to be just a dull dinner like the one the
poor Indian had had the night before; only, of course, the things to
eat would be nicer. Dicky kicked Oswald under the table to make him say
something--and he had his new boots on, too!--but Oswald did not kick
back; then the Uncle asked--

‘Do you carve, sir, or shall I?’

Suddenly Alice said--

‘Would you like grown-up dinner, Uncle, or play-dinner?’

He did not hesitate a moment, but said, ‘Play-dinner, by all means.
Eh!--what?’ and then we knew it was all right.