So we at once showed the Uncle how to be a dauntless hunter. The rabbit
was the deer we had slain in the green forest with our trusty yew bows,
and we toasted the joints of it, when the Uncle had carved it, on bits
of firewood sharpened to a point. The Uncle’s piece got a little burnt,
but he said it was delicious, and he said game was always nicer when you
had killed it yourself. When Eliza had taken away the rabbit bones and
brought in the pudding, we waited till she had gone out and shut the
door, and then we put the dish down on the floor and slew the pudding in
the dish in the good old-fashioned way. It was a wild boar at bay, and
very hard indeed to kill, even with forks. The Uncle was very fierce
indeed with the pudding, and jumped and howled when he speared it, but
when it came to his turn to be helped, he said, ‘No, thank you; think of
my liver. Eh!--what?’

But he had some almonds and raisins--when we had climbed to the top of
the chest of drawers to pluck them from the boughs of the great trees;
and he had a fig from the cargo that the rich merchants brought in their
ship--the long drawer was the ship--and the rest of us had the sweets
and the coconut. It was a very glorious and beautiful feast, and when it
was over we said we hoped it was better than the dinner last night. And
he said:

‘I never enjoyed a dinner more.’ He was too polite to say what he really
thought about Father’s dinner. And we saw that though he might be poor,
he was a true gentleman.

He smoked a cigar while we finished up what there was left to eat, and
told us about tiger shooting and about elephants. We asked him about
wigwams, and wampum, and mocassins, and beavers, but he did not seem
to know, or else he was shy about talking of the wonders of his native
land.

We liked him very much indeed, and when he was going at last, Alice
nudged me, and I said--‘There’s one and threepence farthing left out
of our half-sovereign. Will you take it, please, because we do like you
very much indeed, and we don’t want it, really; and we would rather you
had it.’ And I put the money into his hand.

‘I’ll take the threepenny-bit,’ he said, turning the money over and
looking at it, ‘but I couldn’t rob you of the rest. By the way, where
did you get the money for this most royal spread--half a sovereign you
said--eh, what?’

We told him all about the different ways we had looked for treasure, and
when we had been telling some time he sat down, to listen better and at
last we told him how Alice had played at divining-rod, and how it really
had found a half-sovereign.