Then he said he would like to see her do it again. But we explained that
the rod would only show gold and silver, and that we were quite sure
there was no more gold in the house, because we happened to have looked
very carefully.

‘Well, silver, then,’ said he; ‘let’s hide the plate-basket, and little
Alice shall make the divining-rod find it. Eh!--what?’

‘There isn’t any silver in the plate-basket now,’ Dora said. ‘Eliza
asked me to borrow the silver spoons and forks for your dinner last
night from Albert-next-door’s Mother. Father never notices, but she
thought it would be nicer for you. Our own silver went to have the dents
taken out; and I don’t think Father could afford to pay the man for
doing it, for the silver hasn’t come back.’

‘Bless my soul!’ said the Uncle again, looking at the hole in the big
chair that we burnt when we had Guy Fawkes’ Day indoors. ‘And how much
pocket-money do you get? Eh!--what?’

‘We don’t have any now,’ said Alice; ‘but indeed we don’t want the other
shilling. We’d much rather you had it, wouldn’t we?’

And the rest of us said, ‘Yes.’ The Uncle wouldn’t take it, but he asked
a lot of questions, and at last he went away. And when he went he said--

‘Well, youngsters, I’ve enjoyed myself very much. I shan’t forget your
kind hospitality. Perhaps the poor Indian may be in a position to ask
you all to dinner some day.’

Oswald said if he ever could we should like to come very much, but he
was not to trouble to get such a nice dinner as ours, because we could
do very well with cold mutton and rice pudding. We do not like these
things, but Oswald knows how to behave. Then the poor Indian went away.

We had not got any treasure by this party, but we had had a very good
time, and I am sure the Uncle enjoyed himself.

We were so sorry he was gone that we could none of us eat much tea;
but we did not mind, because we had pleased the poor Indian and enjoyed
ourselves too. Besides, as Dora said, ‘A contented mind is a continual
feast,’ so it did not matter about not wanting tea.

Only H. O. did not seem to think a continual feast was a contented mind,
and Eliza gave him a powder in what was left of the red-currant jelly
Father had for the nasty dinner.

But the rest of us were quite well, and I think it must have been the
coconut with H. O. We hoped nothing had disagreed with the Uncle, but we
never knew.

CHAPTER 16. THE END OF THE TREASURE-SEEKING

Now it is coming near the end of our treasure-seeking, and the end was
so wonderful that now nothing is like it used to be. It is like as
if our fortunes had been in an earthquake, and after those, you know,
everything comes out wrong-way up.