So they all came to the window to look. Oswald had only said that about
stopping and he was stricken with wonder and amaze when the cab really
did stop. It had boxes on the top and knobby parcels sticking out of
the window, and it was something like going away to the seaside and
something like the gentleman who takes things about in a carriage with
the wooden shutters up, to sell to the drapers’ shops. The cabman got
down, and some one inside handed out ever so many parcels of different
shapes and sizes, and the cabman stood holding them in his arms and
grinning over them.

Dora said, ‘It is a pity some one doesn’t tell him this isn’t the
house.’ And then from inside the cab some one put out a foot feeling for
the step, like a tortoise’s foot coming out from under his shell
when you are holding him off the ground, and then a leg came and more
parcels, and then Noel cried--

‘It’s the poor Indian!’

And it was.

Eliza opened the door, and we were all leaning over the banisters.
Father heard the noise of parcels and boxes in the hall, and he came out
without remembering how bad his cold was. If you do that yourself when
you have a cold they call you careless and naughty. Then we heard the
poor Indian say to Father--

‘I say, Dick, I dined with your kids yesterday--as I daresay they’ve
told you. Jolliest little cubs I ever saw! Why didn’t you let me see
them the other night? The eldest is the image of poor Janey--and as to
young Oswald, he’s a man! If he’s not a man, I’m a nigger! Eh!--what?
And Dick, I say, I shouldn’t wonder if I could find a friend to put a
bit into that business of yours--eh?’

Then he and Father went into the study and the door was shut--and we
went down and looked at the parcels. Some were done up in old, dirty
newspapers, and tied with bits of rag, and some were in brown paper and
string from the shops, and there were boxes. We wondered if the Uncle
had come to stay and this was his luggage, or whether it was to sell.
Some of it smelt of spices, like merchandise--and one bundle Alice felt
certain was a bale. We heard a hand on the knob of the study door after
a bit, and Alice said--

‘Fly!’ and we all got away but H. O., and the Uncle caught him by the
leg as he was trying to get upstairs after us.

‘Peeping at the baggage, eh?’ said the Uncle, and the rest of us came
down because it would have been dishonourable to leave H. O. alone in a
scrape, and we wanted to see what was in the parcels.

‘I didn’t touch,’ said H. O. ‘Are you coming to stay? I hope you are.’