‘No harm done if you did touch,’ said the good, kind, Indian man to all
of us. ‘For all these parcels are _for you_.’

I have several times told you about our being dumb with amazement and
terror and joy, and things like that, but I never remember us being
dumber than we were when he said this.

The Indian Uncle went on: ‘I told an old friend of mine what a
pleasant dinner I had with you, and about the threepenny-bit, and the
divining-rod, and all that, and he sent all these odds and ends as
presents for you. Some of the things came from India.’

‘Have you come from India, Uncle?’ Noel asked; and when he said ‘Yes’
we were all very much surprised, for we never thought of his being that
sort of Indian. We thought he was the Red kind, and of course his not
being accounted for his ignorance of beavers and things.

He got Eliza to help, and we took all the parcels into the nursery and
he undid them and undid them and undid them, till the papers lay thick
on the floor. Father came too and sat in the Guy Fawkes chair. I cannot
begin to tell you all the things that kind friend of Uncle’s had sent
us. He must be a very agreeable person.

There were toys for the kids and model engines for Dick and me, and a
lot of books, and Japanese china tea-sets for the girls, red and white
and gold--there were sweets by the pound and by the box--and long yards
and yards of soft silk from India, to make frocks for the girls--and a
real Indian sword for Oswald and a book of Japanese pictures for Noel,
and some ivory chess men for Dicky: the castles of the chessmen are
elephant-and-castles. There is a railway station called that; I never
knew what it meant before. The brown paper and string parcels had boxes
of games in them--and big cases of preserved fruits and things. And the
shabby old newspaper parcels and the boxes had the Indian things in. I
never saw so many beautiful things before. There were carved fans
and silver bangles and strings of amber beads, and necklaces of uncut
gems--turquoises and garnets, the Uncle said they were--and shawls and
scarves of silk, and cabinets of brown and gold, and ivory boxes and
silver trays, and brass things. The Uncle kept saying, ‘This is for you,
young man,’ or ‘Little Alice will like this fan,’ or ‘Miss Dora would
look well in this green silk, I think. Eh!--what?’

And Father looked on as if it was a dream, till the Uncle suddenly gave
him an ivory paper-knife and a box of cigars, and said, ‘My old friend
sent you these, Dick; he’s an old friend of yours too, he says.’ And he
winked at my Father, for H. O. and I saw him. And my Father winked back,
though he has always told us not to.