That was a wonderful day. It was a treasure, and no mistake! I never saw
such heaps and heaps of presents, like things out of a fairy-tale--and
even Eliza had a shawl. Perhaps she deserved it, for she did cook the
rabbit and the pudding; and Oswald says it is not her fault if her nose
turns up and she does not brush her hair. I do not think Eliza likes
brushing things. It is the same with the carpets. But Oswald tries to
make allowances even for people who do not wash their ears.

The Indian Uncle came to see us often after that, and his friend always
sent us something. Once he tipped us a sovereign each--the Uncle brought
it; and once he sent us money to go to the Crystal Palace, and the Uncle
took us; and another time to a circus; and when Christmas was near the
Uncle said--

‘You remember when I dined with you, some time ago, you promised to dine
with me some day, if I could ever afford to give a dinner-party. Well,
I’m going to have one--a Christmas party. Not on Christmas Day, because
every one goes home then--but on the day after. Cold mutton and rice
pudding. You’ll come? Eh!--what?’

We said we should be delighted, if Father had no objection, because that
is the proper thing to say, and the poor Indian, I mean the Uncle, said,
‘No, your Father won’t object--he’s coming too, bless your soul!’

We all got Christmas presents for the Uncle. The girls made him a
handkerchief case and a comb bag, out of some of the pieces of silk he
had given them. I got him a knife with three blades; H. O. got a siren
whistle, a very strong one, and Dicky joined with me in the knife, and
Noel would give the Indian ivory box that Uncle’s friend had sent on the
wonderful Fairy Cab day. He said it was the very nicest thing he had,
and he was sure Uncle wouldn’t mind his not having bought it with his
own money.

I think Father’s business must have got better--perhaps Uncle’s friend
put money in it and that did it good, like feeding the starving. Anyway
we all had new suits, and the girls had the green silk from India made
into frocks, and on Boxing Day we went in two cabs--Father and the girls
in one, and us boys in the other.