We wondered very much where the Indian Uncle lived, because we had not
been told. And we thought when the cab began to go up the hill towards
the Heath that perhaps the Uncle lived in one of the poky little houses
up at the top of Greenwich. But the cab went right over the Heath and in
at some big gates, and through a shrubbery all white with frost like
a fairy forest, because it was Christmas time. And at last we stopped
before one of those jolly, big, ugly red houses with a lot of windows,
that are so comfortable inside, and on the steps was the Indian Uncle,
looking very big and grand, in a blue cloth coat and yellow sealskin
waistcoat, with a bunch of seals hanging from it.

‘I wonder whether he has taken a place as butler here?’ said Dicky.

‘A poor, broken-down man--’

Noel thought it was very likely, because he knew that in these big
houses there were always thousands of stately butlers.

The Uncle came down the steps and opened the cab door himself, which I
don’t think butlers would expect to have to do. And he took us in. It
was a lovely hall, with bear and tiger skins on the floor, and a big
clock with the faces of the sun and moon dodging out when it was day or
night, and Father Time with a scythe coming out at the hours, and the
name on it was ‘Flint. Ashford. 1776’; and there was a fox eating a
stuffed duck in a glass case, and horns of stags and other animals over
the doors.

‘We’ll just come into my study first,’ said the Uncle, ‘and wish each
other a Merry Christmas.’ So then we knew he wasn’t the butler, but it
must be his own house, for only the master of the house has a study.

His study was not much like Father’s. It had hardly any books, but
swords and guns and newspapers and a great many boots, and boxes half
unpacked, with more Indian things bulging out of them.

We gave him our presents and he was awfully pleased. Then he gave us his
Christmas presents. You must be tired of hearing about presents, but
I must remark that all the Uncle’s presents were watches; there was a
watch for each of us, with our names engraved inside, all silver except
H. O.’s, and that was a Waterbury, ‘To match his boots,’ the Uncle said.
I don’t know what he meant.

Then the Uncle looked at Father, and Father said, ‘You tell them, sir.’

So the Uncle coughed and stood up and made a speech. He said--

‘Ladies and gentlemen, we are met together to discuss an important
subject which has for some weeks engrossed the attention of the
honourable member opposite and myself.’

I said, ‘Hear, hear,’ and Alice whispered, ‘What happened to the
guinea-pig?’ Of course you know the answer to that.

The Uncle went on--