‘I am going to live in this house, and as it’s rather big for me, your
Father has agreed that he and you shall come and live with me. And so,
if you’re agreeable, we’re all going to live here together, and, please
God, it’ll be a happy home for us all. Eh!--what?’

He blew his nose and kissed us all round. As it was Christmas I did
not mind, though I am much too old for it on other dates. Then he said,
‘Thank you all very much for your presents; but I’ve got a present here
I value more than anything else I have.’

I thought it was not quite polite of him to say so, till I saw that
what he valued so much was a threepenny-bit on his watch-chain, and, of
course, I saw it must be the one we had given him.

He said, ‘You children gave me that when you thought I was the poor
Indian, and I’ll keep it as long as I live. And I’ve asked some friends
to help us to be jolly, for this is our house-warming. Eh!--what?’

Then he shook Father by the hand, and they blew their noses; and then
Father said, ‘Your Uncle has been most kind--most--’

But Uncle interrupted by saying, ‘Now, Dick, no nonsense!’ Then H. O.
said, ‘Then you’re not poor at all?’ as if he were very disappointed.
The Uncle replied, ‘I have enough for my simple wants, thank you, H.
O.; and your Father’s business will provide him with enough for yours.
Eh!--what?’

Then we all went down and looked at the fox thoroughly, and made the
Uncle take the glass off so that we could see it all round and then the
Uncle took us all over the house, which is the most comfortable one I
have ever been in. There is a beautiful portrait of Mother in Father’s
sitting-room. The Uncle must be very rich indeed. This ending is like
what happens in Dickens’s books; but I think it was much jollier to
happen like a book, and it shows what a nice man the Uncle is, the way
he did it all.

Think how flat it would have been if the Uncle had said, when we first
offered him the one and threepence farthing, ‘Oh, I don’t want your
dirty one and three-pence! I’m very rich indeed.’ Instead of which he
saved up the news of his wealth till Christmas, and then told us all
in one glorious burst. Besides, I can’t help it if it is like Dickens,
because it happens this way. Real life is often something like books.