Presently, when we had seen the house, we were taken into the
drawing-room, and there was Mrs Leslie, who gave us the shillings and
wished us good hunting, and Lord Tottenham, and Albert-next-door’s
Uncle--and Albert-next-door, and his Mother (I’m not very fond of her),
and best of all our own Robber and his two kids, and our Robber had a
new suit on. The Uncle told us he had asked the people who had been kind
to us, and Noel said, ‘Where is my noble editor that I wrote the poetry
to?’

The Uncle said he had not had the courage to ask a strange editor to
dinner; but Lord Tottenham was an old friend of Uncle’s, and he had
introduced Uncle to Mrs Leslie, and that was how he had the pride and
pleasure of welcoming her to our house-warming. And he made her a bow
like you see on a Christmas card.

Then Alice asked, ‘What about Mr Rosenbaum? He was kind; it would have
been a pleasant surprise for him.’

But everybody laughed, and Uncle said--

‘Your father has paid him the sovereign he lent you. I don’t think he
could have borne another pleasant surprise.’

And I said there was the butcher, and he was really kind; but they only
laughed, and Father said you could not ask all your business friends to
a private dinner.

Then it was dinner-time, and we thought of Uncle’s talk about cold
mutton and rice. But it was a beautiful dinner, and I never saw such a
dessert! We had ours on plates to take away into another sitting-room,
which was much jollier than sitting round the table with the grown-ups.
But the Robber’s kids stayed with their Father. They were very shy and
frightened, and said hardly anything, but looked all about with very
bright eyes. H. O. thought they were like white mice; but afterwards we
got to know them very well, and in the end they were not so mousy. And
there is a good deal of interesting stuff to tell about them; but I
shall put all that in another book, for there is no room for it in this
one. We played desert islands all the afternoon and drank Uncle’s health
in ginger wine. It was H. O. that upset his over Alice’s green silk
dress, and she never even rowed him. Brothers ought not to have
favourites, and Oswald would never be so mean as to have a favourite
sister, or, if he had, wild horses should not make him tell who it was.

And now we are to go on living in the big house on the Heath, and it is
very jolly.