All on board of the Duncan followed the movements of the shark with
lively attention. The animal was soon within reach of the hook; he
turned upon his back, in order to seize it better, and the enormous
bait disappeared down his vast gullet. At the same time he hooked
himself, giving the line a violent shake, whereupon the sailors
hoisted the huge creature by means of a pulley at the end of the
yard-arm.

The shark struggled violently at feeling himself drawn from his natural
element, but his struggles were of no avail. A rope with a slip-noose
confined his tail and paralyzed his movements. A few moments afterward
he was hauled over the ratlings, and precipitated upon the deck of the
yacht. One of the sailors at once approached him, not without caution,
and with a vigorous blow of the hatchet cut off the formidable tail of
the animal.

The chase was ended, and there was nothing more to fear from the
monster. The vengeance of the sailors was satisfied, but not their
curiosity. Indeed, it is customary on board of every vessel to
carefully examine the stomachs of sharks. The men, knowing the
inordinate voracity of the creature, wait with some anxiety, and their
expectation is not always in vain.

Lady Glenarvan, not wishing to witness this strange "exploration,"
retired to the cabin. The shark was still panting. He was ten feet
long, and weighed more than six hundred pounds. These dimensions are
nothing extraordinary; for if the balance-fish is not classed among the
giants of this species, at least he belongs to the most formidable of
their family.

The enormous fish was soon cut open by a blow of the hatchet, without
further ceremony. The hook had penetrated to the stomach, which was
absolutely empty. Evidently the animal had fasted a long time, and
the disappointed seamen were about to cast the remains into the sea,
when the attention of the mate was attracted by a bulky object firmly
imbedded in the viscera.

"Ha! what is this?" he exclaimed.

"That," replied one of the sailors, "is a piece of rock that the
creature has taken in for ballast."

"Good!" said another; "it is probably a bullet that this fellow has
received in the stomach, and could not digest."

"Be still, all of you!" cried Tom Austin, the mate; "do you not see
that the animal was a great drunkard? and to lose nothing, has drank
not only the wine, but the bottle too!"

"What!" exclaimed Lord Glenarvan, "is it a bottle that this shark has
in his stomach?"

"A real bottle!" replied the mate, "but you can easily see that it does
not come from the wine-cellar."

"Well, Tom," said Glenarvan, "draw it out carefully. Bottles found in
the sea frequently contain precious documents."

"Do you think so?" said Major MacNabb.

"I do; at least, that it may happen so."

"Oh! I do not contradict you," replied the major. "Perhaps there may be
a secret in this."

"We shall see," said Glenarvan. "Well, Tom?"