"Let us proceed in order," said Lord Glenarvan, "and start at
the beginning. Permit me to point out one by one these scattered
and incomplete words. I see from the first letters _troi_ _ats_
(_trois-mats_), that it is a brig, the name of which, thanks to the
English and French documents, is entirely preserved: _The Britannia_.
Of the two following words, _gonie_ and _austral_, only the last has an
intelligible meaning."

[Sidenote: THE PUZZLE EXPLAINED.]

"That is an important point," replied Captain Mangles; "the shipwreck
took place in the southern hemisphere."

"That is indefinite," said the major.

"I will continue," resumed Glenarvan. "The word _abor_ is the trace of
the verb _aborder_ (to land). These unfortunates have landed somewhere.
But where? _Contin!_ Is it on a continent? _Cruel!_"

"'Cruel!'" cried Mangles; "that explains the German word _graus,
grausam, cruel_!"

"Go on, go on!" cried Glenarvan, whose interest was greatly excited as
the meaning of these incomplete words was elucidated. "_Indi_! Is it
India, then, where these sailors have been cast? What is the meaning of
the word _ongit_? Ha, longitude! And here is the latitude, 37° 11'. In
short, we have a definite indication."

"But the longitude is wanting," said MacNabb.

"We cannot have everything, my dear major," replied Glenarvan; "and
an exact degree of latitude is something. This French document is
decidedly the most complete of the three. Each of them was evidently
a literal translation of the others, for they all convey the same
information. We must, therefore, unite and translate them into one
language, and seek their most probable meaning, the one that is most
logical and explicit."

"Shall we make this translation in French, English, or German?" asked
the major.

"In English," answered Glenarvan, "since that is our own language."

"Your lordship is right," said Captain Mangles, "besides, it was also
theirs."

"It is agreed, then. I will write this document, uniting these parts of
words and fragments of phrases, leaving the gaps that separate them,
and filling up those the meaning of which is not ambiguous. Then we
will compare them and form an opinion."

Glenarvan at once took a pen, and, in a few moments, presented to his
friends a paper on which were written the following lines:

At this moment a sailor informed the captain that the Duncan was
entering the Frith of Clyde, and asked his orders.

"What are your lordship's wishes?" said the captain, addressing Lord
Glenarvan.

"Reach Dumbarton as quickly as possible, captain. Then, while Lady
Helena returns to Malcolm Castle, I will go to London and submit this
document to the authorities."

The captain gave his orders in pursuance of this, and the mate executed
them.

"Now, my friends," said Glenarvan, "we will continue our
investigations. We are on the track of a great catastrophe. The lives
of several men depend upon our sagacity. Let us use therefore all our
ingenuity to divine the secret of this enigma."

"We are ready, my dear Edward," replied Lady Helena.