"First of all," continued Glenarvan, "we must consider three distinct
points in this document. First, what is known; second, what can be
conjectured; and third, what is unknown. What do we know? That on the
7th of June, 1862, a brig, the Britannia, of Glasgow, was wrecked;
that two sailors and the captain threw this document into the sea in
latitude 37° 11', and in it ask for assistance."

"Exactly," replied the major.

[Sidenote: "LINE UPON LINE."]

"What can we conjecture?" resumed Glenarvan. "First, that the
shipwreck took place in the South Seas; and now I call your attention
to the word _gonia_. Does it not indicate the name of the country which
they reached?"

"Patagonia!" cried Lady Helena.

"Probably."

"But is Patagonia crossed by the thirty-seventh parallel?" asked the
major.

"That is easily seen," said the captain, taking out a map of South
America. "It is so: Patagonia is bisected by the thirty-seventh
parallel, which crosses Araucania, over the Pampas, north of Patagonia,
and is lost in the Atlantic."

"Well, let us continue our conjectures. The two sailors and the captain
_abor, land_. Where? _Contin_,--the _continent_, you understand; a
continent, not an island. What becomes of them? We have fortunately
two letters, _pr_, which inform us of their fate. These unfortunates,
in short, are _captured_ (pris) or _prisoners_. By whom? The _cruel
Indians_. Are you convinced? Do not the words fit naturally into the
vacant places? Does not the document grow clear to your eyes? Does not
light break in upon your mind?"

Glenarvan spoke with conviction. His looks betokened an absolute
confidence; and his enthusiasm was communicated to his hearers. Like
him they cried, "It is plain! it is plain!"

A moment after Lord Edward resumed, in these terms:

"All these hypotheses, my friends, seem to me extremely plausible. In
my opinion, the catastrophe took place on the shores of Patagonia.
However, I will inquire at Glasgow what was the destination of the
Britannia, and we shall know whether she could have been led to these
regions."

"We do not need to go so far," replied the captain; "I have here the
shipping news of the _Mercantile and Shipping Gazette_, which will give
us definite information."

"Let us see! let us see!" said Lady Glenarvan.

Captain Mangles took a file of papers of the year 1862, and began to
turn over the leaves rapidly. His search was soon ended; as he said, in
a tone of satisfaction,--

"May 30, 1862, Callao, Peru, _Britannia_, Captain Grant, bound for
Glasgow."

"Grant!" exclaimed Lord Glenarvan; "that hardy Scotchman who wished to
found a new Scotland in the waters of the Pacific?"

"Yes," answered the captain, "the very same, who, in 1861, embarked in
the Britannia at Glasgow, and of whom nothing has since been heard."