"Exactly! exactly!" said Glenarvan; "it is indeed he. The Britannia
left Callao the 30th of May, and on the 7th of June, eight days after
her departure, she was lost on the shores of Patagonia. This is the
whole story elucidated from the remains of these words that seemed
undecipherable. You see, my friends, that what we can conjecture is
very important. As to what we do not know, this is reduced to one item,
the missing degree of longitude."

"It is of no account," added Captain Mangles, "since the country is
known; and with the latitude alone, I will undertake to go straight to
the scene of the shipwreck."

"We know all, then?" said Lady Glenarvan.

"All, my dear Helena: and these blanks that the sea has made between
the words of the document, I can as easily fill out as though I were
writing at the dictation of Captain Grant."

Accordingly Lord Glenarvan took the pen again, and wrote, without
hesitation, the following note:

"June 7, 1862.--The brig Britannia of Glasgow was wrecked on the shores
of Patagonia, in the Southern Hemisphere. Directing their course to
land, two sailors and Captain Grant attempted to reach the continent,
where they will be prisoners of the cruel Indians. They have thrown
this document into the sea, at longitude ----, latitude 37° 11'. Bring
them assistance or they are lost."

[Sidenote: A NOBLE RESOLVE.]

"Good! good! my dear Edward!" said Lady Glenarvan; "and if these
unfortunates see their native country again, they will owe this
happiness to you."

"And they shall see it again," replied Glenarvan. "This document is too
explicit, too clear, too certain, for Englishmen to hesitate. What has
been done for Sir John Franklin, and so many others, will also be done
for the shipwrecked of the Britannia."

"But these unfortunates," answered Lady Helena, "have, without doubt,
a family that mourns their loss. Perhaps this poor Captain Grant has a
wife, children----"

"You are right, my dear lady; and I charge myself with informing them
that all hope is not yet lost. And now, my friends, let us go on deck,
for we must be approaching the harbor."

Indeed, the Duncan had forced on steam, and was now skirting the shores
of Bute Island. Rothesay, with its charming little village nestling in
its fertile valley, was left on the starboard, and the vessel entered
the narrow inlets of the frith, passed Greenock, and, at six in the
evening, was anchored at the foot of the basaltic rocks of Dumbarton,
crowned by the celebrated castle.

Here a coach was waiting to take Lady Helena and Major MacNabb back to
Malcolm Castle. Lord Glenarvan, after embracing his young wife, hurried
to take the express train for Glasgow. But before going, he confided an
important message to a more rapid agent, and a few moments after the
electric telegraph conveyed to the _Times_ and _Morning Chronicle_ an
advertisement in the following terms:

"For any information concerning the brig Britannia of Glasgow, Captain
Grant, address Lord Glenarvan, Malcolm Castle, Luss, County of
Dumbarton, Scotland."