Miss Helena did not belong to a noble family, but she was Scotch, which
equaled all nobilities in the eyes of Lord Glenarvan. This charming
young creature, high-minded and devoted, the lord of Luss had made the
companion of his life. He found her one day living alone, an orphan,
almost without fortune, in the house of her father at Kilpatrick. He
saw that the poor girl would make a noble wife, and he married her.

Miss Tuffnel was twenty-two, a youthful blonde, with eyes as blue as
the waters of the Scotch lakes on a beautiful morning in spring. Her
love for her husband exceeded even her gratitude. She loved him as if
she had been the rich heiress, and he the friendless orphan. As to
their tenants and servants, they were ready to lay down their lives for
her whom they called "our good lady of Luss."

[Sidenote: LIFE IN THE SCOTTISH HOME.]

Lord and Lady Glenarvan lived happily at Malcolm Castle, in the midst
of the grand and wild scenery of the Highlands, rambling in the
shady alleys of horse-chestnuts and sycamores, along the shores of
the lake, where still resounded the war cries of ancient times, or
in the depths of those uncultivated gorges in which the history of
Scotland lies written in ruins from age to age. One day they would
wander in the forests of beeches and larches, and in the midst of the
masses of heather; another, they would scale the precipitous summits
of Ben Lomond, or traverse on horseback the solitary glens, studying,
comprehending, and admiring this poetic country, still called "the land
of Rob Roy," and all those celebrated sites so grandly sung by Walter
Scott.

In the sweet, still evening, when the "lantern of Mac Farlane"
illumined the horizon, they would stroll along the "bartizans," an old
circular balcony that formed a chain of battlements to Malcolm Castle,
and there, pensive, oblivious, and as if alone in the world, seated
on some detached rock, under the pale rays of the moon, while night
gradually enveloped the rugged summits of the mountains, they would
continue wrapt in that pure ecstasy and inward delight known only to
loving hearts.

Thus passed the first months of their married life. But Lord Glenarvan
did not forget that his wife was the daughter of a great traveler. He
thought that Lady Helena must have in her heart all the aspirations of
her father, and he was not mistaken. The Duncan was constructed, and
was designed to convey Lord and Lady Glenarvan to the most beautiful
countries of the world, along the waves of the Mediterranean, and to
the isles of the Archipelago. Imagine the joy of Lady Helena when her
husband placed the Duncan at her disposal! Indeed, can there be a
greater happiness than to lead your love towards those charming "isles
where Sappho sung," and behold the enchanting scenes of the Orient,
with all their spirit-stirring memories?