Then a great idea entered his mind which made his name popular
throughout Scotland. Like the Glenarvans and several other great
families of the Highlands, he was opposed in heart, if not in deed,
to the advance and prevalence of English thought and feeling. The
interests of his country could not be in his eyes the same as those
of the Anglo-Saxons, and, in order to give the former a peculiar and
national development, he resolved to found a Scottish colony in some
part of the Southern World. Did he dream of that independence in the
future of which the United States had set the example, and which the
Indies and Australia cannot fail one day to acquire? Very likely;
but he allowed his secret hopes to be divined. It was, therefore,
known that the Government refused to lend their aid in his project
of colonization; nay, they even raised obstacles which in any other
country would have overcome the project.

But Harry Grant would not be discouraged. He appealed to the patriotism
of his countrymen, gave his fortune to serve the cause, built a vessel
and furnished it with a fine crew, confided his children to the care
of his old cousin, and set sail to explore the great islands of the
Pacific.

It was the year 1861. Until May, 1862, they had received news of him,
but since his departure from Callao, in the month of June, no one had
heard anything of the Britannia, and the marine intelligencers became
silent concerning the fate of the captain.

At this juncture of affairs the old cousin of Harry Grant died, and
the two children were left alone in the world. Mary Grant was then
fourteen. Her courageous soul did not flinch at the situation that was
presented, but she devoted herself entirely to her brother, who was
still a child. She must bring him up and instruct him. By dint of
economy, prudence, and sagacity, laboring night and day, sacrificing
all for him, denying herself everything, the sister succeeded in
educating her brother and bravely fulfilled her sisterly duties.

The two children lived thus at Dundee, and valiantly overcame
their sorrowful and lonely circumstances. Mary thought only of her
brother, and dreamed of a happy future for him. As for herself, alas!
the Britannia was lost forever, and her father dead! We must not,
therefore, attempt to depict her emotion when the advertisement in the
_Times_ accidentally met her eye, and suddenly raised her from her
despair.

It was no time to hesitate. Her resolution was immediately taken. Even
if she should learn that her father's dead body had been found on a
desert coast, or in the hull of a shipwrecked vessel, it was better
than this continual doubt, this eternal torment of uncertainty. She
told her brother all; and the same day the two children took the Perth
Railroad, and at evening arrived at Malcolm Castle, where Mary, after
so many harassing thoughts, began to hope.