Such was the sorrowful story that the young girl related to Lady
Glenarvan, in an artless manner, without thinking that through all
those long years of trial she had behaved herself like an heroic
daughter. But Lady Helena thought of this, and several times, without
hiding her tears, she clasped in her arms the two children of Captain
Grant.

As for Robert, it seemed as if he heard this story for the first time:
for he opened his eyes in astonishment, as he listened to his sister;
comprehended what she had done, what she had suffered; and at last,
encircling her with his arms, he exclaimed, unable longer to restrain
the cry that came from the very depths of his heart,--

"Oh, mamma! my dear mamma!"

Night had now fully set in; and Lady Helena, remembering the fatigue of
the two children, would not longer continue the conversation. Mary
and Robert were conducted to their chambers, and fell asleep dreaming
of a brighter future.

After they had retired, Lady Helena saw the major, and told him all the
events of the day.

"That Mary Grant is a brave girl," said MacNabb, when he had heard his
cousin's story.

"May Heaven grant my husband success in his enterprise!" replied Lady
Helena; "for the situation of the two children would be terrible!"

"He will succeed," answered MacNabb, "or the hearts of the authorities
must be harder than the stone of Portland."

In spite of the major's assurance, Lady Helena passed the night in the
greatest anxiety, and could scarce gain an hour's repose.

[Sidenote: "BROKEN CISTERNS."]

The next morning Mary and her brother rose at daybreak, and were
walking in the galleries and water terraces of the castle, when the
sound of a coach was heard in the great court-yard. It was Lord
Glenarvan returning to Malcolm Castle at the full speed of his horses.
Almost immediately Lady Helena, accompanied by the major, appeared
in the court-yard, and flew to meet her husband. But he seemed sad,
disappointed, and angry. He clasped his wife in his arms, and was
silent.

"Well, Edward!" she exclaimed.

"Well, my dear Helena," he replied, "those people have no hearts!"

"They refused?"

"Yes, they refused me a vessel: they spoke of the millions vainly spent
in searching for Franklin; they declared the document was vague and
unintelligible; they said that the shipwreck of these unfortunates had
happened two years ago, and that there was little chance of finding
them. They maintained too, that, if prisoners of the Indians, they must
have been carried into the interior of the country; that they could not
ransack all Patagonia to find three men,--three Scotchmen; the search
would be vain and perilous, and would cost the lives of more men than
it would save. In short, they gave all the absurd reasons of people who
mean to refuse. They remembered the captain's projects, and I fear that
the unfortunate man is forever lost!"

"My father, my poor father!" cried Mary Grant, throwing herself at the
feet of Lord Glenarvan.