"Your father! What, Miss----?" said he, surprised at seeing a young
girl at his feet.

"Yes, Edward, Miss Grant and her brother," replied Lady Helena; "the
two children of Captain Grant, who have thus been condemned to remain
orphans."

"Ah, miss!" answered Lord Glenarvan, "if I had known of your
presence----"

He said no more. A painful silence, interrupted only by sobs, reigned
in the court-yard. No one raised his voice, neither Lord Glenarvan,
Lady Helena, the major, nor the servants of the castle, who were
standing about even at this early hour. But by their attitude they all
protested against the conduct of the officials.

After several moments the major resumed the conversation, and,
addressing Lord Glenarvan, said,--

"Then you have no more hope?"

"None."

"Well," cried young Robert, "I will go to these people, and--we shall
see----"

He did not finish his threat, for his sister stopped him; but his
clinched hands indicated his intentions.

"No, Robert," said she, "no; let us thank these kind people for what
they have done for us. Let us always keep them in remembrance; but now
we must take our departure."

"Mary!" cried Lady Helena.

"Miss, where would you go?" said Lord Glenarvan.

"I am going to throw myself at the feet of the Queen," replied the
young girl, "and we shall see if she will be deaf to the prayers of two
children imploring help for their father."

Lord Glenarvan shook his head; not that he doubted the clemency of Her
Gracious Majesty, but he doubted whether Mary Grant would gain access
to her; for but few suppliants reach the steps of a throne.

Lady Helena understood her husband's thoughts. She knew that the young
girl might make a fruitless journey, and she pictured to herself these
two children leading henceforth a cheerless existence. Then it was that
she conceived a grand and noble idea.

"Mary Grant," she exclaimed, "wait, my child; listen to what I am about
to say."

The young girl held her brother by the hand, and was preparing to go.
She stopped.

Then Lady Helena, with tearful eye, but firm voice and animated
features, advanced towards her husband.

[Sidenote: "NOBLY PLANNED."]

"Edward," said she, "when Captain Grant wrote that letter, and cast
it into the sea, he confided it to the care of God himself, who has
brought it to us. Without doubt He designed to charge us with the
safety of these unfortunates."

"What do you mean, Helena?" inquired Lord Glenarvan, whilst all waited
in silence.

"I mean," replied Lady Helena, "that we ought to consider ourselves
happy in beginning our married life with a good action. You, my dear
Edward, to please me, have planned a pleasure voyage. But what pleasure
can be more genuine or more beneficent than to save these unfortunates
whom hope has almost abandoned?"

"Helena!" cried Lord Glenarvan.