"Yes, you understand me, Edward. The Duncan is a good, staunch vessel.
It can brave the Southern seas; it can make the tour of the world,--and
it will, if necessary! Let us start, Edward,--let us go in search of
Captain Grant!"

At these courageous words Lord Glenarvan had extended his arms to his
wife. He smiled. He pressed her to his heart, while Mary and Robert
kissed her hands.

And during this touching scene the servants of the castle, affected and
enthusiastic, uttered from their hearts this cry of gratitude,--

"Hurrah for the lady of Luss! Hurrah! three times hurrah, for Lord and
Lady Glenarvan!"

CHAPTER V.

THE DEPARTURE OF THE DUNCAN.

It has been already said that Lady Helena had a brave and generous
soul. What she had just done was an undeniable proof of it, and Lord
Glenarvan had good reason to trust in this noble woman, who was
capable of comprehending and following him. The idea of sailing to
the rescue of Captain Grant had already taken possession of him when
he saw his petition rejected at London; but he could not have thought
of separating from her. Yet, since she desired to go herself, all
hesitation was at an end. The servants of the castle had received her
proposal with cries of joy; the safety of their brother Scots was at
stake, and Lord Glenarvan joined heartily in the hurrahs that greeted
the lady of Luss.

The scheme once resolved upon, there was not an hour to lose. That
very day Lord Glenarvan sent to Captain Mangles orders to bring the
Duncan to Glasgow, and make every preparation for a voyage to the South
Seas, which might become one of circumnavigation. Moreover, in her
plans Lady Helena had not overestimated the qualities of the Duncan:
of first-class construction with regard to strength and swiftness, she
could without injury sustain a long voyage.

[Sidenote: FITTING FOR SEA.]

The Duncan was a steam yacht of one hundred and ten tons burden.
She had two masts,--a foremast with fore-sail, main-sail, foretop
and foretop-gallant sails; and a mainmast, carrying a main-sail and
fore-staff. Her rigging was, therefore, sufficient, and she could
profit by the wind like a simple clipper; but she relied especially
upon her mechanical power. Her engine was of an effective force of one
hundred and sixty horse power, and was constructed on a new plan. It
possessed apparatus for overheating, which gave its steam a very great
tension. It was a high-pressure engine, and produced motion by a double
screw. The Duncan under full steam could acquire a speed equal to any
vessel of that day. Indeed, during her trial trip in the Frith of
Clyde, she had made, according to the log, seventeen knots an hour. She
was, therefore, fully capable of circumnavigating the world; and her
captain had only to occupy himself with the internal arrangement.