His first care was to increase his store-room, and take in the
greatest possible quantity of coal, for it would be difficult to renew
their supplies on the voyage. The same precaution was taken with the
steward's room, and provisions for two years were stowed away. Money,
of course, was not wanting, and a pivot-gun was furnished, which was
fixed at the forecastle. You do not know what may happen, and it is
always best to have the means of defense in your reach.

Captain Mangles, we must say, understood his business. Although he
commanded only a pleasure yacht, he was ranked among the ablest of
the Glasgow captains. He was thirty years of age, with rather rough
features, indicating courage and kindness. When a child, the Glenarvan
family had taken him under their care, and made him an excellent
seaman. He had often given proofs of skill, energy, and coolness during
his long voyages, and when Lord Glenarvan offered him the command of
the Duncan, he accepted it with pride and pleasure, for he loved the
lord of Malcolm Castle as a brother, and until then had vainly sought
an opportunity to devote himself to his service.

The mate, Tom Austin, was an old sailor worthy of all confidence; and
the crew of the Duncan was composed of twenty-five men, including
the captain and mate. They all belonged to the county of Dumbarton,
were all tried seamen, sons of the tenants of the family, and formed
on shipboard a genuine clan of honest people, who of course were not
without the national bagpipe. Lord Glenarvan had, in them, a band of
faithful subjects, happy in their avocation, devoted, courageous, and
skillful in the use of arms, as well as in the management of a ship,
while they were ready to follow him on the most perilous expeditions.
When they learned where they were going, they could not restrain their
joyous emotion, and the echoes of the rocks of Dumbarton awoke to their
cries of enthusiasm.

Captain Mangles, while occupied in lading and provisioning his craft,
did not forget to prepare Lord and Lady Glenarvan's apartments for a
long voyage. He likewise provided cabins for Captain Grant's children,
for Lady Helena could not refuse Mary permission to accompany her on
the expedition.

As for young Robert, he would have hidden in the hold sooner than
not go; even if he had been compelled to serve as cabin-boy, like
Lord Nelson and Sir John Franklin, he would have embarked on board
the Duncan. To think of opposing such a little gentleman! It was
not attempted. They were even obliged to take him other than as
passenger, for as cabin-boy or sailor he _would serve_. The captain was
accordingly commissioned to teach him the duties of a seaman.

"Good!" said Robert; "and let him not spare a few blows of the rope's
end if I do not walk straight."

"Be easy, my boy," replied Glenarvan, without adding that the use of
the "cat-o'-nine-tails" was prohibited, and moreover quite needless, on
board the Duncan.