Captain Mangles informed Lord Glenarvan, who at once came on deck. Very
soon the ebb-tide was felt. The Duncan gave a few shrill whistles,
slackened her cables, and separated from the surrounding vessels. Her
screw was set in motion, which propelled her into the channel of the
river. The captain had taken no pilot. He was perfectly acquainted with
the navigation of the Clyde, and no one could have commanded better. At
a sign from him the yacht started. With his right hand he controlled
the engine, and with his left the tiller, with silent but unerring
skill.

[Sidenote: A CHANGE OF SCENE.]

Soon the last workshops on the shore gave place to villas, built here
and there upon the hills, and the sounds of the city died away in the
distance. An hour afterwards, the Duncan passed the rocks of Dumbarton;
two hours later she was in the Frith of Clyde; and at six o'clock in
the morning she doubled Cantyre Point, emerged from the North Channel,
and gained the open sea.

CHAPTER VI.

AN UNEXPECTED PASSENGER.

During the first day's voyage the sea was quite rough, and the wind
freshened towards evening. The Duncan rolled considerably, so that
the ladies did not appear on deck, but very wisely remained in their
cabins. The next day the wind changed a point, and the captain set the
main-, fore-, and foretop-sails, thus causing less perception of the
rolling and pitching motion.

Lady Helena and Mary Grant were able before daybreak to join Lord
Glenarvan, the major, and the captain, on deck. The sunrise was
magnificent. The orb of day, like a gilded metal disk, rose from the
ocean, as from an immense and silvery basin. The ship glided in the
midst of a splendid iridescence, and you would truly have thought that
her sails expanded under the influence of the sun's rays, whilst even
the crew of the yacht silently admired this reappearance of the orb of
day.

"What a magnificent spectacle!" said Lady Helena, at last. "This is
the beginning of a beautiful day. May the wind not prove contrary, but
favor the progress of the Duncan!"

"No better weather could be desired, my dear Helena," replied Lord
Glenarvan; "we have no reason to complain of the commencement of the
voyage."

"Will it be a long one, my dear Edward?"

"That is for the captain to answer," said he. "Are we progressing well?
Are you satisfied with your vessel, captain?"

"Very well indeed," was the answer. "She is a marvelous craft, and a
sailor likes to feel her under his feet. Never were hull and engine
more in unison. See how smooth her wake is, and how easily she rides
the waves. We are moving at the rate of seventeen knots an hour. If
this continues, we shall cross the line in ten days, and in five weeks
shall double Cape Horn."

"You hear, Mary," said Lady Helena: "in five weeks!"

"Yes," replied the young girl, "I hear; and my heart beat quickly at
the words of the captain."