"Indeed they are, my dear Helena," said Lord Glenarvan. "This yacht
is a part of our old Caledonia,--a detached portion of the county of
Dumbarton, traveling by special favor, so that we have not left our
country. The Duncan is Malcolm Castle, and the ocean is Loch Lomond."

"Well, then, my dear Edward, do the honors of the castle," said Lady
Helena.

"I am at your disposal, madam," answered her husband; "but first let me
inform Olbinett."

The steward of the yacht was an excellent manager, a Scotchman, who
deserved to have been a Frenchman from his self-importance, and,
moreover, fulfilled his duties with zeal and intelligence. He was at
once ready for his master's commands.

"Olbinett, we are going to make a tour of the vessel before breakfast,"
said Glenarvan, as if a journey to Tarbet or Loch Katrine was in
question. "I hope we shall find the table ready on our return."

Olbinett bowed gravely.

"Do you accompany us, major?" asked Lady Helena.

"If you order it," replied MacNabb.

"Oh!" said Lord Glenarvan, "the major is absorbed in the smoke of his
cigar; we must not disturb him, for I assure you he is an inveterate
smoker, Miss Mary; he smokes all the time, even in his sleep."

The major made a sign of assent, and the passengers descended
between-decks.

MacNabb remained alone, talking to himself, according to his custom,
but never contradicting himself. Enveloped in a dense cloud of smoke,
he stood motionless, gazing back at the wake of the yacht. After a few
moments of contemplation, he turned and found himself face to face with
a new character. If _anything_ could have surprised him, it must have
been this meeting, for the passenger was absolutely unknown to him.

[Sidenote: A TELESCOPIC APPARITION.]

This man, tall, lank, and shriveled, might have been forty years old.
He resembled a long, broad-headed nail, for his head was large and
thick, his forehead high, his nose prominent, his mouth wide, and
his chin blunt. As for his eyes, they were hidden behind enormous
eye-glasses, and his look seemed to have that indecision peculiar
to nyctalops. His countenance indicated an intelligent and lively
person, while it had not the crabbed air of those stern people who from
principle never laugh, and whose stupidity is hidden beneath a serious
guise. The nonchalance and amiable freedom of this unknown nonentity
clearly proved that he knew how to take men and things at their best
advantage. Even without his speaking you felt that he was a talker; but
he was abstracted, after the manner of those who do not see what they
are looking at or hear what they are listening to. He wore a traveling
cap, stout yellow buskins and leather gaiters, pantaloons of maroon
velvet, and a jacket of the same material, whose innumerable pockets
seemed stuffed with note-books, memoranda, scraps, portfolios, and a
thousand articles as inconvenient as they were useless, not to speak
of a telescope which he carried in a sling.