The curiosity of this unknown being was a singular contrast to the
calmness of the major. He walked around MacNabb, and gazed at him
questioningly, whilst the latter did not trouble himself whence the
stranger came, whither he was going, or why he was on board the Duncan.

When this enigmatical character saw his approaches mocked by the
indifference of the major, he seized his telescope, which at its full
length measured four feet; and motionless, with legs straddled, like a
sign-post on a highway, he pointed his instrument to the line where sky
and water met. After a few moments of examination, he lowered it, and
resting it on the deck, leaned upon it as upon a cane. But immediately
the joints of the instrument closed, and the newly discovered
passenger, whose point of support suddenly failed, was stretched at the
foot of the mainmast.

Any one else in the major's place would at least have smiled, but he
did not even wink. The unknown then assumed his rôle.

"Steward!" he cried, with an accent that betokened a foreigner.

He waited. No one appeared.

"Steward!" he repeated, in a louder tone.

Mr. Olbinett was passing just then on his way to the kitchen under the
forecastle. What was his astonishment to hear himself thus addressed by
this tall individual, who was utterly unknown to him!

"Where did this person come from?" said he to himself. "A friend of
Lord Glenarvan? It is impossible."

However, he came on deck, and approached the stranger.

"Are you the steward of the vessel?" the latter asked him.

"Yes, sir," replied Olbinett; "but I have not the honor----"

"I am the passenger of cabin number six."

"Number six?" repeated the steward.

"Certainly; and your name is----?"

"Olbinett."

"Well, Olbinett, my friend," answered the stranger of cabin number six,
"I must think of dinner, and acutely, too. For thirty-six hours I have
eaten nothing, or, rather, have slept, which is pardonable in a man
come all the way from Paris to Glasgow. What hour do you dine, if you
please?"

"At nine o'clock," answered Olbinett, mechanically.

The stranger attempted to consult his watch; but this took some time,
for he did not find it till he came to his ninth pocket.

[Sidenote: CONFUSION WORSE CONFOUNDED.]

"Well," said he, "it is not yet eight o'clock; therefore, Olbinett, a
biscuit and a glass of sherry for the present; for I am fainting with
hunger."

Olbinett listened without understanding. Moreover, the unknown kept
talking, and passed from one subject to another with extreme volubility.

"Well," said he, "has not the captain risen yet? And the mate? What is
he doing? Is he asleep, too? Fortunately, the weather is beautiful, the
wind favorable, and the ship goes on quite by herself----"

Just as he said this, Captain Mangles appeared at the companion-way.

"Here is the captain," said Olbinett.

"Ah, I am delighted," cried the stranger, "delighted to make your
acquaintance, Captain Burton!"