If any one was ever astounded, John Mangles certainly was, not less at
hearing himself called "Captain Burton," than at seeing this stranger
on board his vessel.

The latter continued, with more animation:

"Permit me to shake hands with you, and if I did not do so day before
yesterday, it was that no one might be embarrassed at the moment of
departure. But to-day, captain, I am truly happy to meet you."

Captain Mangles opened his eyes in measureless astonishment, looking
first at Olbinett, and then at the new comer.

"Now," continued the latter, "the introduction is over, and we are old
friends. Let us have a talk; and tell me, are you satisfied with the
Scotia?"

"What do you mean by the Scotia?" asked the captain, at last.

"Why, the Scotia that carries us: a good ship, whose commander, the
brave Captain Burton, I have heard praised no less for his physical
than his moral qualities. Are you the father of the great African
traveler of that name? If so, my compliments!"

"Sir," replied Captain Mangles, "not only am I not the father of the
traveler Burton, but I am not even Captain Burton."

"Ah!" said the unknown, "it is the mate of the Scotia then, Mr.
Burdness, whom I am addressing at this moment?"

"Mr. Burdness?" replied Captain Mangles, who began to suspect the
truth. But was he talking to a fool, or a rogue? This was a question in
his mind, and he was about to explain himself intelligibly, when Lord
Glenarvan, his wife, and Miss Grant came on deck.

The stranger perceived them, and cried,--

"Ah! passengers! passengers! excellent! I hope, Mr. Burdness, you are
going to introduce me----"

And advancing with perfect ease, without waiting for the captain,--

"Madam" said he to Miss Grant, "Miss" to Lady Helena, "Sir" he added,
addressing Lord Glenarvan.

"Lord Glenarvan," said Captain Mangles.

"My lord," continued the unknown, "I beg your pardon for introducing
myself, but at sea we must relax a little from etiquette. I hope we
shall soon be acquainted, and that, in the society of these ladies, the
passage of the Scotia will seem as short to us as agreeable."

Lady Helena and Miss Grant could not find a word to answer. They were
completely bewildered by the presence of this intruder.

"Sir," said Glenarvan, at length, "whom have I the honor of addressing?"

"Jacques Eliacim François Marie Paganel, secretary of the Geographical
Society of Paris; corresponding member of the societies of Berlin,
Bombay, Darmstadt, Leipsic, London, St. Petersburg, Vienna, and New
York; honorary member of the Royal Geographical and Ethnographical
Institute of the East Indies, who, after passing twenty years of his
life in studying geography, designs now to enter upon a roving life,
and is directing his course to India to continue there the labors of
the great travelers."

CHAPTER VII.

JACQUES PAGANEL IS UNDECEIVED.