The secretary of the Geographical Society must have been an agreeable
person, for all this was said with much modesty. Lord Glenarvan,
moreover, knew perfectly whom he had met. The name and merit of Jacques
Paganel were well known to him. His geographical labors, his reports
on modern discoveries, published in the bulletins of the Society, his
correspondence with the entire world, had made him one of the most
distinguished scientific men of France. Thus Glenarvan extended his
hand very cordially to his unexpected guest.

"And now that our introduction is over," added he, "will you permit me,
Monsieur Paganel, to ask you a question?"

"Twenty, my lord," replied Jacques Paganel; "it will always be a
pleasure to converse with you."

"You arrived on board this vessel the day before yesterday?"

"Yes, my lord, day before yesterday, at eight o'clock in the evening.
I took a cab from the Caledonian Railway to the Scotia, in which I had
engaged cabin number six at Paris. The night was dark. I saw no one on
board. Feeling fatigued by thirty hours of travel, and knowing that
a good way to avoid sea-sickness is to go to bed on embarking, and
not stir from your bunk for the first days of the voyage, I retired
immediately, and have conscientiously slept thirty-six hours, I assure
you."

Jacques Paganel's hearers now knew the reason of his presence on board.
The Frenchman, mistaking the vessel, had embarked while the crew of
the Duncan were engaged in the ceremony at Saint Mungo. Everything was
explained. But what would the geographer say, when he learned the name
and destination of the vessel on which he had taken passage?

"So, Monsieur Paganel," said Glenarvan, "you have chosen Calcutta as
your centre of action?"

"Yes, my lord. To see India is an idea that I have cherished all my
life. It is my brightest dream, which shall be realized at last in the
country of the elephants and the Thugs."

"Then you would not care to visit another country?"

"No, my lord; it would be even disagreeable, for I have letters from
Lord Somerset to the governor-general of India, and a mission from the
Geographical Society which I must fulfil."

"Ah! you have a mission?"

"Yes, a useful and curious voyage to undertake, the programme of
which has been arranged by my scientific friend and colleague, M.
Vivien de Saint Martin. It is to follow in the steps of the brothers
Schlagintweit, and many other celebrated travelers. I hope to succeed
where Missionary Krick unfortunately failed in 1846. In a word, I wish
to discover the course of the Yaroo-tsang-bo-tsoo, which waters Thibet,
and finally to settle whether this river does not join the Brahmapootra
in the northeast part of Assam. A gold medal is promised to that
traveler who shall succeed in supplying this much-needed information on
Indian geography."