"To Chili! to Chili!" cried the unfortunate geographer. "And my mission
to India! But what will M. de Quatrefages say, the President of the
Central Commission? How shall I represent myself at the sessions of the
Society?"

[Sidenote: COURTESY AND CONVERSE.]

"Come, monsieur," said Glenarvan, "do not despair. Everything can
be arranged, and you will only have to submit to a delay of little
consequence. The Yaroo-tsang-bo-tsoo will wait for you in the mountains
of Thibet. We shall soon reach Madeira, and there you will find a
vessel to take you back to Europe."

"I thank you, my lord, and must be resigned. But we can say this is an
extraordinary adventure, which would not have happened but for me. And
my cabin which is engaged on board the Scotia?"

"Oh, as for the Scotia, I advise you to give her up for the present."

"But," said Paganel after examining the vessel again, "the Duncan is a
pleasure yacht."

"Yes, sir," replied Captain Mangles, "and belongs to his lordship, Lord
Glenarvan----"

"Who begs you to make free use of his hospitality," said Glenarvan.

"A thousand thanks, my lord," replied Paganel; "I am truly sensible
to your courtesy. But permit me to make a simple remark. India is a
beautiful country. It offers marvelous surprises to travelers. These
ladies have probably never visited it. Well, the man at the helm needs
only to give a turn to the wheel, and the Duncan will go as easily to
Calcutta as Concepcion. Now, since this is a pleasure voyage----"

The negative reception that met Paganel's proposal did not permit him
to develop it. He paused.

"Monsieur Paganel," said Lady Helena at length, "if this were only a
pleasure voyage, I would answer: 'Let us all go to India,' and Lord
Glenarvan would not disapprove. But the Duncan is going to recover
some shipwrecked sailors, abandoned on the coast of Patagonia; and she
cannot change so humane a course."

In a few moments the Frenchman was acquainted with the situation of
affairs, and learned, not without emotion, the providential discovery
of the documents, the story of Captain Grant, and Lady Helena's
generous proposal.

"Madam," said he, "permit me to admire your conduct in all this, and to
admire it without reserve. May your yacht continue on her course; I
would reproach myself for delaying her a single day."

"Will you then join in our search?" asked Lady Helena.

"It is impossible, madam; I must fulfil my mission. I shall disembark
at your first landing."

"At Madeira then," said Captain Mangles.

"At Madeira let it be. I shall be only one hundred and eighty leagues
from Lisbon, and will wait there for means of further conveyance."

"Well, Monsieur Paganel," said Glenarvan, "it shall be as you desire;
and, for my part, I am happy that I can offer you for a few days the
hospitalities of my vessel. May you not grow weary of our company."