"Oh, my lord," exclaimed the geographer, "I am still too happy in being
so agreeably disappointed. However, it is a very ludicrous situation
for a man who takes passage for India, and is sailing to America."

In spite of this mortifying reflection, Paganel made the best use of a
delay that he could not avoid. He showed himself amiable, and even gay;
he enchanted the ladies with his good humor, and before the end of the
day he was the friend of every one. At his request the famous document
was shown to him. He studied it carefully, long and minutely. No other
interpretation appeared to him possible. Mary Grant and her brother
inspired him with the liveliest interest. He gave them good hopes. His
way of distinguishing the events, and the undeniable success that he
predicted for the Duncan, elicited a smile from the young girl.

[Sidenote: THIS, OR THAT, OR NEITHER.]

As to Lady Helena, when he learned that she was the daughter of William
Tuffnel, there was an outburst of surprise and admiration. He had known
her father. What a bold discoverer! How many letters they had exchanged
when the latter was corresponding member of the Society! He it was who
had introduced him to M. Malte-Brun. What a meeting! and how much
pleasure to travel with the daughter of such a man! Finally, he asked
Lady Helena's permission to kiss her, to which she consented, although
it was perhaps a little "improper."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE GEOGRAPHER'S RESOLUTION.

Meanwhile the yacht, favored by the currents, was advancing rapidly
towards the equator. In a few days the island of Madeira came in view.
Glenarvan, faithful to his promise, offered to land his new guest here.

"My dear lord," replied Paganel, "I will not be formal with you. Before
my arrival on board, did you intend to stop at Madeira?"

"No," said Glenarvan.

"Well, permit me to profit by the consequences of my unlucky blunder.
Madeira is an island too well known. Everything has been said and
written about it; and it is, moreover, rapidly declining in point of
civilization. If, then, it is all the same to you, let us land at the
Canaries."

"Very well, at the Canaries," replied Glenarvan. "That will not take us
out of our way."

"I know it, my dear lord. At the Canaries, you see, there are three
groups to study, not to speak of the Peak of Teneriffe, which I have
always desired to see. This is a fine opportunity. I will profit by
it; and, while waiting for a vessel, will attempt the ascent of this
celebrated mountain."

"As you please, my dear Paganel," replied Glenarvan, who could not help
smiling, and with good reason.

The Canaries are only a short distance from Madeira, scarcely two
hundred and fifty miles, a mere trifle for so good a vessel as the
Duncan.