The same day, at two o'clock in the afternoon, Captain Mangles and
Paganel were walking on the deck. The Frenchman pressed his companion
with lively questions concerning Chili. All at once the captain
interrupted him, and pointing towards the southern horizon, said,--

"Mr. Paganel!"

"My dear captain," replied the geographer.

"Please cast your eyes in that direction. Do you see nothing?"

"Nothing."

"You are not looking right. It is not on the horizon, but above, in the
clouds."

"In the clouds? I look in vain."

"Stop, now, just on a line with the end of the bowsprit."

"I see nothing."

"You do not wish to see. However that may be, although we are forty
miles distant, you understand, the Peak of Teneriffe is visible above
the horizon."

Whether Paganel wished to see or not, he had to yield to the evidence
some hours afterwards, or, at least, confess himself blind.

"You perceive it now?" said his companion.

"Yes, yes, perfectly!" replied Paganel. "And that," added he in a
contemptuous tone, "is what you call the Peak of Teneriffe?"

"The same."

"It appears to be of very moderate height."

"Yet it is eleven thousand feet above the level of the sea."

"Not so high as Mont Blanc."

"Very possibly; but when you come to climb it, you will find it,
perhaps, high enough."

"Oh! climb it, my dear captain? What is the use, I ask you, after
Humboldt and Bonpland? What can I do after these great men?"

"Indeed," replied Captain Mangles, "there is nothing left but to wander
about. It is a pity, for you would be very tired waiting for a vessel
at Teneriffe. You cannot look for many distractions there."

"Except my own," said Paganel, laughing. "But, my dear captain, have
not the Cape Verd Islands important landings?"

"Certainly. Nothing is easier than to land at Villa-Praïa."

"Not to speak of an advantage that is not to be despised," answered
Paganel; "that the Cape Verd Islands are not far from Senegal, where I
shall find fellow-countrymen."

"As you please, Mr. Paganel," replied Captain Mangles. "I am certain
that geographical science will gain by your sojourn in these islands.
We must land there to take in coal; you will, therefore, cause us no
delay."

[Sidenote: DECLINED, WITH THANKS.]

So saying, the captain gave the order to pass to the southeast of the
Canaries. The celebrated peak was soon left on the larboard; and the
Duncan, continuing her rapid course, cut the Tropic of Cancer the next
morning at five o'clock. The weather there changed. The atmosphere
had the moisture and oppressiveness of the rainy season, disagreeable
to travelers, but beneficial to the inhabitants of the African
islands, who have no trees, and consequently need water. The sea was
boisterous, and prevented the passengers from remaining on deck; but
the conversation in the cabin was not less animated.