The next day Paganel began to collect his baggage preparatory to
his approaching departure. In a short time they entered the bay of
Villa-Praïa, and anchored opposite the city in eight fathoms of
water. The weather was stormy and the surf high, although the bay was
sheltered from the winds. The rain fell in torrents so that they could
scarcely see the city, which was on an elevated plain in the form of a
terrace, resting on volcanic rocks three hundred feet in height. The
appearance of the island through this rainy curtain was misty.

Shipping the coal was not accomplished without great difficulty, and
the passengers saw themselves confined to the cabin, while sea and
sky mingled their waters in an indescribable tumult. The weather was,
therefore, the topic of conversation on board. Each one had his say
except the major, who would have witnessed the deluge itself with
perfect indifference. Paganel walked to and fro, shaking his head.

"It is an imperative fact," said he.

"It is certain," replied Glenarvan, "that the elements declare
themselves against you."

"I will see about that."

"You cannot face such a storm," said Lady Helena.

"I, madam? Certainly. I fear only for my baggage and instruments. They
will all be lost."

"Our landing is the only thing doubtful," resumed Glenarvan. "Once
at Villa-Praïa, you will not have very uncomfortable quarters; rather
uncleanly, to be sure, in the company of monkeys and swine, whose
surroundings are not always agreeable; but a traveler does not regard
that so critically. Besides, you can hope in seven or eight months to
embark for Europe."

"Seven or eight months!" exclaimed Paganel.

"At least that. The Cape Verd Islands are very rarely frequented
during the rainy season. But you can employ your time profitably. This
archipelago is still little known. There is much to do, even now."

"But," replied Paganel in a pitiful tone, "what could I do after the
investigations of the geologist Deville?"

"That is really a pity," said Lady Helena. "What will become of you,
Monsieur Paganel?"

Paganel was silent for a few moments.

"You had decidedly better have landed at Madeira," rejoined Glenarvan,
"although there is no wine there."

"My dear Glenarvan," continued Paganel at last, "where shall you land
next?"

"At Concepcion."

"Alas! but that would bring me directly away from India!"

"No; for when you have passed Cape Horn you approach the Indies."

"I very much doubt it."

"Besides," continued Glenarvan with the greatest gravity, "as long as
you are at the Indies, what difference does it make whether they are
the East or the West?"

"'What difference does it make'?"

"The inhabitants of the Pampas of Patagonia are Indians as well as the
natives of the Punjab."

"Eh! my lord," exclaimed Paganel, "that is a reason I should never have
imagined!"

[Sidenote: BAIT FOR A TRAVELLER.]