"And then, my dear Paganel, you know that you can gain the gold medal
in any country whatever. There is something to do, to seek, to
discover, everywhere, in the chains of the Cordilleras as well as the
mountains of Thibet."

"But the course of the Yaroo-tsang-bo-tsoo?"

"Certainly. You can replace that by the Rio Colorado. This is a river
very little known, and one of those which flow on the map too much
according to the fancy of the geographer."

"I know it, my dear lord; there are errors of several degrees. I do not
doubt that at my request the Society would have sent me to Patagonia as
well as to India; but I did not think of it."

"The result of your continual abstraction."

"Well, Monsieur Paganel, shall you accompany us?" asked Lady Helena in
her most persuasive tone.

"And my mission, madam?"

"I inform you that we shall pass through the Strait of Magellan,"
continued Glenarvan.

"My lord, you are a tempter."

"I add that we shall visit Port Famine."

"Port Famine!" cried the Frenchman, assailed on all sides; "that port
so celebrated in geographical fasts!"

"Consider also, Monsieur Paganel," continued Lady Helena, "that in this
enterprise you will have the right to associate the name of France with
that of Scotland."

"Yes; doubtless."

"A geographer may be very serviceable to our expedition; and what is
more noble than for science to enlist in the service of humanity?"

"That is well said, madam."

"Believe me, try chance, or rather Providence. Imitate us. It has sent
us this document; we have started. It has cast you on board the Duncan;
do not leave her."

"And do you, indeed, wish me, my good friends?" replied Paganel. "Well,
you desire me to stay very much?"

"And you, Paganel, you are dying to stay," retorted Glenarvan.

"Truly," cried the geographer, "but I fear I am very indiscreet."

Thus far the Duncan had acquitted herself admirably: in every way her
powers for steaming or sailing had been sufficiently tested, and her
captain and passengers were alike satisfied with her performance and
with one another.

CHAPTER IX.

THROUGH THE STRAIT OF MAGELLAN.

The joy on board was general, when Paganel's resolution was known.
Young Robert threw himself on his neck with very demonstrative
delight. The worthy geographer almost fell backwards. "A rough little
gentleman," said he; "I will teach him geography." As Captain Mangles
had engaged to make him a sailor, Glenarvan a man of honor, the major a
boy of coolness, Lady Helena a noble and generous being, and Mary Grant
a pupil grateful towards such patrons, Robert was evidently to become
one day an accomplished gentleman.