The Duncan soon finished shipping her coal, and then leaving these
gloomy regions she gained the current from the southeast coast of
Brazil, and, after crossing the equator with a fine breeze from the
north, she entered the southern hemisphere. The passage was effected
without difficulty, and every one had good hopes. On this voyage in
search of Captain Grant, the probabilities increased every day. Their
captain was one of the most confident on board; but his confidence
proceeded especially from the desire that he cherished so strongly at
heart, of seeing Miss Mary happy and consoled. He was particularly
interested in this young girl; and this feeling he concealed so well,
that, except Miss Grant and himself, no one on board the Duncan had
perceived it.

As for the learned geographer, he was probably the happiest man in the
southern hemisphere. He passed his time in studying the maps with which
he covered the cabin-table; and then followed daily discussions with
Mr. Olbinett, so that he could scarcely set the table.

But Paganel had all the passengers on his side except the major,
who was very indifferent to geographical questions, especially at
dinner-time. Having discovered a whole cargo of odd books in the mate's
chests, and among them a number of Cervantes' works, the Frenchman
resolved to learn Spanish, which nobody on board knew, and which would
facilitate his search on the shores of Chili. Thanks to his love for
philology, he did not despair of speaking this new tongue fluently on
arriving at Concepcion. He therefore studied assiduously, and was heard
incessantly muttering heterogeneous syllables. During his leisure hours
he did not fail to give young Robert practical instruction, and taught
him the history of the country they were rapidly approaching.

In the meantime the Duncan was proceeding at a remarkable rate. She
cut the Tropic of Capricorn, and her prow was headed toward the strait
of the celebrated geographer. Now and then the low shores of Patagonia
were seen, but like an almost invisible line on the horizon. They
sailed along the coast for more than ten miles, but Paganel's famous
telescope gave him only a vague idea of these American shores.

The vessel soon found herself at the head of the strait, and entered
without hesitation. This way is generally preferred by steam-vessels
bound for the Pacific. Its exact length is three hundred and
seventy-six miles. Ships of the greatest tonnage can always find deep
water, even near its shores, an excellent bottom, and many springs of
water. The rivers abound in fish, the forest in game, there are safe
and easy landings at twenty places, and, in short, a thousand resources
that are wanting in the Strait of Lemaire, and off the terrible rocks
of Cape Horn, which are continually visited by storms and tempests.