During the first hours of the passage, till you reach Cape Gregory,
the shores are low and sandy. The entire passage lasted scarcely
thirty-six hours, and this moving panorama of the two shores well
rewarded the pains the geographer took to admire it under the radiant
beams of the southern sun. No inhabitant appeared on the shores of the
continent; and only a few Fuegians wandered along the barren rocks of
Terra del Fuego.

At one moment the Duncan rounded the peninsula of Brunswick between
two magnificent sights. Just here the strait cuts between stupendous
masses of granite. The base of the mountains was hidden in the heart
of immense forests, while their summits, whitened with eternal snow,
were lost in the clouds. Towards the southeast Mount Taru towered
six thousand five hundred feet aloft. Night came, preceded by a long
twilight, the light melting away insensibly by gentle degrees, while
the sky was studded with brilliant stars.

In the midst of this partial obscurity, the yacht boldly continued on
her course, without casting anchor in the safe bays with which the
shores abound. Sometimes the tips of her yards would graze the branches
of the beeches that hung over the waves. At others her propeller would
beat the waters of the great rivers, starting geese, ducks, snipe,
teal, and all the feathered tribes of the marshes. Soon deserted ruins
appeared, and fallen monuments, to which the night lent a grand aspect;
these were the mournful remains of an abandoned colony, whose name
will be an eternal contradiction to the fertility of the coasts and
the rich game of the forests. It was Port Famine, the place that the
Spaniard Sarmiento colonized in 1581 with four hundred emigrants. Here
he founded the city of San Felipe. But the extreme severity of the cold
weakened the colony; famine devoured those whom the winter had spared,
and in 1587 the explorer Cavendish found the last of these four hundred
unfortunates dying of hunger amid the ruins of a city only six years in
existence.

[Sidenote: CHEERLESS MEMORIES.]

The vessel coasted along these deserted shores. At daybreak she sailed
in the midst of the narrow passes, between beeches, ash-trees, and
birches, from the bosom of which emerged ivy-clad domes, cupolas
tapestried with the hardy holly, and lofty spires, among which the
obelisk of Buckland rose to a great height. Far out in the sea sported
droves of seals and whales of great size, judging by their spouting,
which could be seen at a distance of four miles. At last they doubled
Cape Froward, still bristling with the ices of winter. On the other
side of the strait, on Terra del Fuego, rose Mount Sarmiento to the
height of six thousand feet, an enormous mass of rock broken by bands
of clouds which formed as it were an aerial archipelago in the sky.