How greatly it had declined from its ancient splendor! Often pillaged
by the natives, burnt in 1819, desolate, ruined, its walls still
blackened with the flames of devastation, eclipsed by Talcahuana, it
now scarcely numbered eight thousand souls. Under the feet of its
idle inhabitants the streets had grown into prairies. There was no
commerce, no activity, no business. The mandolin resounded from every
balcony, languishing songs issued from the lattices of the windows, and
Concepcion, the ancient city of men, had become a village of women and
children.

Glenarvan appeared little desirous of seeking the causes of this
decline--though Jacques Paganel attacked him on this subject--and,
without losing an instant, betook himself to the house of J. R.
Bentock, Esq., consul of Her Britannic Majesty. This individual
received him very courteously, and when he learned the story of Captain
Grant undertook to search along the entire coast.

The question whether the Britannia had been wrecked on the shores of
Chili or Araucania was decided in the negative. No report of such an
event had come either to the consul, or his colleagues in other parts
of the country.

But Glenarvan was not discouraged. He returned to Talcahuana, and,
sparing neither fatigue, trouble, or money, he sent men to the coast,
but their search was in vain. The most minute inquiries among the
people of the vicinity were of no avail. They were forced to conclude
that the Britannia had left no trace of her shipwreck.

[Sidenote: "TRY AGAIN!"]

Glenarvan then informed his companions of the failure of his endeavors.
Mary Grant and her brother could not restrain their grief. It was now
six days since the arrival of the Duncan at Talcahuana. The passengers
were together in the cabin. Lady Helena was consoling, not by her
words--for what could she say?--but by her caresses, the two children
of the captain. Jacques Paganel had taken up the document again, and
was regarding it with earnest attention, as if he would have drawn from
it new secrets. For an hour he had examined it thus, when Glenarvan,
addressing him, said,--

"Paganel, I appeal to your sagacity. Is the interpretation we have made
of this document incorrect? Is the sense of these words illogical?"

Paganel did not answer. He was reflecting.

"Are we mistaken as to the supposed scene of the shipwreck?" continued
Glenarvan. "Does not the name Patagonia suggest itself at once to the
mind?"

Paganel was still silent.

"In short," said Glenarvan, "does not the word _Indian_ justify us
still more?"

"Perfectly," replied MacNabb.

"And therefore, is it not evident that these shipwrecked men, when they
wrote these lines, expected to be prisoners of the Indians?"

"There you are wrong, my dear lord," said Paganel, at last; "and if
your other conclusions are just, the last at least does not seem to me
rational."

"What do you mean?" asked Lady Helena, while all eyes were turned
towards the geographer.