"Certainly I do, madam. The Indians are not cannibals; far from that,
one of my countrymen whom I knew in the Society was three years
prisoner among the Indians of the Pampas. He suffered, was ill-treated,
but at last gained the victory in this trying ordeal. A European is
a useful person in these countries. The Indians know his value, and
esteem him very highly."

"Well then, there is no more hesitation," said Glenarvan; "we must
start, and that, too, without delay. What course shall we take?"

"An easy and agreeable one," replied Paganel. "A few mountains to begin
with; then a gentle descent on the eastern slope of the Andes; and at
last a level, grassy, sandy plain, a real garden."

"Let us see the map," said the major.

"Here it is, my dear MacNabb. We shall begin at the end of the
thirty-seventh parallel on the coast of Chili. After passing through
the capital of Araucania, we shall strike the Cordilleras, and
descending their steep declivities across the Rio Colorado, we shall
reach the Pampas. Passing the frontiers of Buenos Ayres, we shall
continue our search until we reach the shores of the Atlantic."

[Sidenote: A STROLL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.]

Thus speaking and developing the programme of the expedition, Paganel
did not even take the trouble to look at the map spread before him.
And he had no need to; educated in the schools of Frézier, Molina,
Humboldt, and Miers, his unerring memory could neither be deceived nor
baffled. After finishing his plan, he added:

"Therefore, my dear friends, the course is straight. In thirty days we
shall accomplish it, and arrive before the Duncan on the eastern shore,
since the westerly winds will delay her progress."

"The Duncan then," said Captain Mangles, "will cross the thirty-seventh
parallel between Cape Corrientes and Cape St. Antonio?"

"Exactly."

"And whom would you constitute the members of such an expedition?"
asked Glenarvan.

"The fewer the better. The only point is to ascertain the situation of
Captain Grant, and not to engage in combat with the Indians. I think
that Lord Glenarvan, as our chief, the major, who would yield his place
to no one, your servant Jacques Paganel----"

"And I!" cried Robert Grant.

"Robert?" said Mary.

"And why not?" answered Paganel. "Travels develop youth. We four, then,
and three sailors of the Duncan----"

"What," exclaimed Captain Mangles, "your lordship does not intercede
for me?"

"My dear fellow," replied Glenarvan, "we shall leave the ladies on
board, the dearest objects we have in the world. Who would watch over
them, if not the devoted captain of the Duncan?"

"We cannot accompany you, then," said Lady Helena, whose eyes were
dimmed by a mist of sadness.

"My dear wife," replied Glenarvan, "our journey will be performed with
unusual rapidity, our separation will be short, and----"

[Sidenote: GOOD AFTERNOON!]

"Yes, yes; I understand you," answered Lady Helena. "Go, then, and may
you succeed in your enterprise."

"Besides, this is not a journey," added Paganel.

"What is it, then?" asked Lady Helena.