"A passage, nothing more. We shall pass, that is all, like honest
men, over the country and do all the good possible. '_Transire
benefaciendo_' is our motto."

With these words the discussion ended. The preparations were begun that
very day, and it was resolved to keep the expedition secret, in order
not to alarm the Indians. The 14th of October was fixed for the day of
departure.

When they came to choose the sailors who were to go, they all offered
their services, and Glenarvan was forced to make a choice. He preferred
to have them draw lots, that he might not mortify such brave men. This
was accordingly done; and the mate, Tom Austin, Wilson, a powerful
fellow, and Mulready, were the fortunate ones.

Lord Glenarvan had displayed great energy in his preparations, for he
wished to be ready at the day appointed; and he was. Captain Mangles
likewise supplied his ship with coal, that he might put to sea at any
moment. He wished to gain the Argentine shore before the travelers.
Hence there was a real rivalry between Glenarvan and the captain, which
was of advantage to both.

At last, on the 14th of October, at the time agreed upon, every one was
ready. At the moment of departure the passengers of the yacht assembled
in the cabin. The Duncan was on the point of starting, and already her
propeller was agitating the quiet waters of Talcahuana Bay. Glenarvan,
Paganel, MacNabb, Robert Grant, Tom Austin, Wilson and Mulready, armed
with carbines and Colt's revolvers, were preparing to leave the vessel.
Guides and mules were waiting for them on shore.

"It is time," said Lord Glenarvan at last.

"Go, then, my husband!" replied Lady Helena, restraining her emotion.

He pressed her to his breast, while Robert threw himself upon the neck
of his sister.

"And now, dear companions," said Jacques Paganel, "one last clasp of
the hand to last us till we reach the shores of the Atlantic."

It was not asking much, but these were clasps which would strengthen
the hopes of the worthy geographer.

They then returned to the deck, and the seven travelers left the
vessel. They soon reached the wharf, which the yacht approached within
less than half a cable's length.

Lady Helena cried for the last time,--

"My friends, God help you!"

"And he will help us, madam," answered Jacques Paganel; "for, I assure
you, we shall help ourselves."

"Forward!" shouted Captain Mangles to his engineer.

"_En route_!" returned Glenarvan; and at the same instant that the
travelers, giving reins to their animals, followed the road along the
shore, the Duncan started again at full speed on the highway of the
ocean.

CHAPTER XI.

TRAVELING IN CHILI.