The custom of the muleteers is to set out at eight o'clock in the
morning after breakfast, and travel thus till it is time to rest at
four o'clock in the afternoon. Glenarvan, accordingly, conformed
to this custom. Precisely when the signal to halt was given by the
catapaz, the travelers arrived at the city of Arauco, situated at the
southern extremity of the bay, without having left the foam-washed
shore of the ocean. They would have had to proceed twenty miles farther
to the west to reach the limits of the thirty-seventh parallel; but
Glenarvan's agents had already traversed that part of the coast
without meeting with any signs of shipwreck. A new exploration became,
therefore, useless, and it was decided that the city of Arauco should
be chosen as their point of departure. From this their course was to
be directed towards the east in a rigorously straight line. The little
party entered the city and took up their quarters in the open court of
a tavern, whose accommodations were still in a rudimentary state.

While supper was preparing, Glenarvan, Paganel and the catapaz took a
walk among the thatch-roofed houses. Except a church and the remains
of a convent of Franciscans, Arauco presented nothing interesting.
Glenarvan attempted to make some inquiries, but failed, while Paganel
was in despair at not being able to make himself understood by the
inhabitants. But, since they spoke Araucanian, his Spanish served him
as little as Hebrew.

[Sidenote: ONWARD, AND ONWARD STILL.]

The next day, the madrina at the head, and the peons in the rear, the
little troop resumed the line of the thirty-seventh parallel towards
the east. They now crossed the fertile territory of Araucania, rich in
vineyards and flocks. But gradually solitude ensued. Scarcely, from
mile to mile, was there a hut of "rastreadores" (Indian horse-tamers).
Now and then they came upon an abandoned relay-station, that only
served as a shelter to some wanderer on the plains; and, by means of a
ford, they crossed the Rio Tubal, the mountains visible in the distance.

At four o'clock in the afternoon, after a journey of thirty-five miles,
they halted in the open country under a group of giant myrtles. The
mules were unharnessed, and left to graze at will upon the rich herbage
of the prairie. The saddle-bags furnished the usual meat and rice,
the pelions spread on the ground served as covering, the saddles as
pillows, and each one found on these improvised beds a ready repose,
while the peons and the catapaz watched in turn.

As the weather continued pleasant, all the travelers, not excepting
Robert, were still in good health; and, since the journey had begun
under such favorable auspices, they thought it best to profit by it,
and push on. The following day they advanced rapidly, crossed without
accident Bell Rapids, and at evening encamped on the banks of the Rio
Biobio. There were thirty-five miles more to travel before they were
out of Chili.