The country had not changed. It was still rich in amaryllis, violets,
date-trees, and golden-flowered cactuses. A few animals, among
others the ocelot, inhabited the thickets. A heron, a solitary owl,
thrushes and snipes wary of the talons of the hawk, were the only
representatives of the feathered tribe.

Of the natives few were seen; only some "guassos" (degenerate children
of the Indians and Spanish), galloping on horses which they lacerated
with the gigantic spurs that adorned their naked feet, and passing
like shadows. They met on the way no one who could inform them, and
inquiries were therefore utterly impossible.

[Sidenote: AN ASTONISHED CATAPAZ.]

Glenarvan thought that Captain Grant, if prisoner of the Indians, must
have been carried by them beyond the Andes. Their search could be
successful only in the Pampas. They must be patient, and travel on
swiftly and continuously.

They advanced in the same order as before, which Robert with difficulty
kept, for his eagerness led him to press forward, to the great
annoyance of his animal. Nothing but a command from Glenarvan would
keep the young boy at his place in the line. The country now became
more uneven; and several hillocks indicated that they were approaching
the mountains.

Paganel still continued his study of Spanish.

"What a language it is!" exclaimed he; "so full and sonorous!"

"But you are making progress, of course?" replied Glenarvan.

"Certainly, my dear lord. Ah! if there were only no accent! But, alas!
there is one!"

In studying this language, Paganel did not, however, neglect his
geographical observations. In these, indeed, he was astonishingly
clever, and could not have found his superior. When Glenarvan
questioned the catapaz about some peculiarity of the country, his
learned companion would always anticipate the answer of the guide, who
then gazed at him with a look of amazement.

That same day they met a road which crossed the line that they had
hitherto pursued. Lord Glenarvan naturally asked its name of their
guide, and Paganel as naturally answered,--

"The road from Yumbel to Los Angelos."

Glenarvan looked at the catapaz.

"Exactly," replied he.

Then, addressing the geographer, he said,--

"You have traveled in this country?"

"Certainly," replied Paganel gravely.

"On a mule?"

"No; in an arm-chair."

The catapaz did not understand, for he shrugged his shoulders and
returned to the head of the troop.

At five o'clock in the afternoon they stopped in a shallow gorge, a
few miles above the little town of Loja; and that night the travelers
encamped at the foot of the first slopes of the Andes.

CHAPTER XII.

ELEVEN THOUSAND FEET ALOFT.

The route through Chili had as yet presented no serious obstacles; but
now the dangers that attend a journey across the mountains suddenly
increased, the struggle with the natural difficulties was about to
begin in earnest.

An important question had to be decided before starting. By what pass
could they cross the Andes with the least departure from the prescribed
course? The catapaz was questioned on this subject.