"I know," he replied, "of but two passes that are practicable in this
part of the Andes."

"Doubtless the pass of Arica," said Paganel, "which was discovered by
Valdivia Mendoza."

"Exactly."

"And that of Villarica, situated to the south of Nevado."

"You are right."

"Well, my friend, these two passes have only one difficulty; they will
carry us to the south, or the north, farther than we wish."

"Have you another pass to propose?" asked the major.

"Yes," replied Paganel; "the pass of Antuco."

"Well," said Glenarvan; "but do you know this pass, catapaz?"

[Sidenote: ATTAINING TO EMINENCE.]

"Yes, my lord, I have crossed it, and did not propose it because it is
only a cattle-track for the Indian herdsmen of the eastern slopes."

"Never mind, my friend," continued Glenarvan; "where the herds of the
Indians pass, we can also; and, since this will keep us in our course,
let us start for the pass of Antuco."

The signal for departure was immediately given, and they entered the
valley of Los Lejos between great masses of crystalized limestone, and
ascended a very gradual slope. Towards noon they had to pass around
the shores of a small lake, the picturesque reservoir of all the
neighboring streams which flowed into it.

Above the lake extended vast "llanos," lofty plains, covered with
grass, where the herds of the Indians grazed. Then they came upon a
swamp which extended to the south and north, but which the instinct
of the mules enabled them to avoid. Soon Fort Ballenare appeared on a
rocky peak which it crowned with its dismantled walls. The ascent had
already become abrupt and stony, and the pebbles, loosened by the hoofs
of the mules, rolled under their feet in a rattling torrent.

The road now became difficult, and even perilous. The steepness
increased, the walls on either side approached each other more and
more, while the precipices yawned frightfully. The mules advanced
cautiously in single file, with their noses to the ground, scenting the
way.

Now and then, at a sudden turn, the madrina disappeared, and the little
caravan was then guided by the distant tinkling of her bell. Sometimes,
too, the capricious windings of the path would bend the column into
two parallel lines, and the catapaz could talk to the peons, while a
crevasse, scarcely two fathoms wide, but two hundred deep, formed an
impassable abyss between them.

Under these conditions it was difficult to distinguish the course. The
almost incessant action of subterranean and volcanic agency changes
the road, and the landmarks are never the same. Therefore the catapaz
hesitated, stopped, looked about him, examined the form of the rocks,
and searched on the crumbling stones for the tracks of Indians.

Glenarvan followed in the steps of his guide. He perceived, he _felt_,
his embarrassment, increasing with the difficulties of the way. He did
not dare to question him, but thought that it was better to trust to
the instinct of the muleteers and mules.