They ascended all night, climbed almost inaccessible plateaus, and
leaped over broad and deep crevasses. Their arms took the place of
ropes, and their shoulders served as steps. The strength of Mulready
and the skill of Wilson were often called into requisition. Many times,
without their devotion and courage, the little party could not have
advanced.

Glenarvan never lost sight of young Robert, whose youth and eagerness
led him to acts of rashness, while Paganel pressed on with all the
ardor of a Frenchman. As for the major, he only moved as much as
was necessary, no more, no less, and mounted the path by an almost
insensible motion. Did he perceive that he had been ascending
for several hours? It is not certain. Perhaps he imagined he was
descending.

[Sidenote: PRACTICING "EXCELSIOR."]

At five o'clock in the morning the travelers had attained a height of
seven thousand five hundred feet. They were now on the lower ridges,
the last limit of arborescent vegetation. At this hour the aspect of
these regions was entirely changed. Great blocks of glittering ice, of
a bluish color in certain parts, rose on all sides, and reflected the
first rays of the sun.

The ascent now became very perilous. They no longer advanced without
carefully examining the ice. Wilson had taken the lead, and with his
foot tested the surface of the glaciers. His companions followed
exactly in his footsteps, and avoided uttering a word, for the least
sound might have caused the fall of the snowy masses suspended eight
hundred feet above their heads.

They had reached the region of shrubs, which, four hundred and fifty
feet higher, gave place to grass and cactuses. At eleven thousand feet
all traces of vegetation disappeared. The travelers had stopped only
once to recruit their strength by a hasty repast, and with superhuman
courage they resumed the ascent in the face of the ever-increasing
dangers.

[Sidenote: SOMEWHAT SERIOUS.]

The strength of the little troop, however, in spite of their courage,
was almost gone. Glenarvan, seeing the exhaustion of his companions,
regretted having engaged in the undertaking. Young Robert struggled
against fatigue, but could go no farther.

Glenarvan stopped.

"We must take a rest," said he, for he clearly saw that no one else
would make this proposal.

"Take a rest?" replied Paganel; "how? where? we have no shelter."

"It is indispensable, if only for Robert."

"No, my lord," replied the courageous child; "I can still walk--do not
stop."

"We will carry you, my boy," said Paganel, "but we must, at all
hazards, reach the eastern slope. There, perhaps, we shall find some
hut in which we can take refuge. I ask for two hours more of travel."

"Do you all agree?" asked Glenarvan.

"Yes," replied his companions.

"I will take charge of the brave boy," added the equally brave Mulready.

They resumed their march towards the east. Two hours more of terrible
exertion followed. They kept ascending, in order to reach the highest
summit of this part of the mountain.