"Do--you--understand?" cried Paganel, violently enough to damage his
organs of speech.

It was evident that the Indian did not understand, for he answered, but
in Spanish,--

"I do not understand."

It was Paganel's turn now to be astonished, and he hastily put on his
glasses, like one irritated.

"May I be hanged," said he, "if I understand a word of this infernal
jargon! It is certainly Araucanian."

"No," replied Glenarvan; "this man answered in Spanish."

And, turning to the Patagonian, he repeated,--

"Spanish?"

"Yes," replied the native.

Paganel's surprise became amazement. The major and Glenarvan looked at
him quizzingly.

"Ah, my learned friend!" said the major, while a half smile played
about his lips, "you have committed one of those blunders peculiar to
you."

"What!" cried the geographer, starting.

"Yes, it is plain that this Patagonian speaks Spanish."

"He?"

[Sidenote: A PENINSULAR BABEL.]

"Yes. By mistake you have learnt another language, while thinking that
you studied----"

MacNabb did not finish. A loud "Oh!" from the geographer, accompanied
by shrugs of the shoulders, cut him short.

"Major, you are going a little too far," said Paganel in a very dry
tone.

"To be sure, since you do not understand."

"I do not understand because this native speaks so badly!" answered the
geographer, who began to be impatient.

"That is to say, he speaks badly, because you do not understand,"
returned the major, calmly.

"MacNabb," said Glenarvan, "that is not a probable supposition. However
abstracted our friend Paganel may be, we cannot suppose that his
blunder was to learn one language for another."

"Now, my dear Edward, or rather you, my good Paganel, explain to me
what the difficulty is."

"I will not explain," replied Paganel, "I insist. Here is the book
in which I practice daily the difficulties of the Spanish language!
Examine it, major, and you will see whether I impose upon you."

So saying, Paganel groped in his numerous pockets. After searching a
few moments, he drew forth a volume in a very bad state, and presented
it with an air of assurance. The major took the book, and looked at it.

"Well, what work is this?" he asked.

"The Lusiad," replied Paganel; "an admirable poem which----"

"The Lusiad!" cried Glenarvan.

"Yes, my friend, the Lusiad of the immortal Camoëns, nothing more or
less."

"Camoëns!" repeated Glenarvan; "but, unfortunate friend, Camoëns was
a Portuguese! It is Portuguese that you have been studying for six
weeks."

"Camoëns! Lusiad! Portuguese!"

Paganel could say no more. His eyes wandered, while a peal of Homeric
laughter rang in his ears.

The Patagonian did not wink; he waited patiently for the explanation of
this event, which was totally incomprehensible to him.