The next day they resumed their journey towards the east. About noon
a change took place in the appearance of the Pampas, which could
not escape eyes wearied with its monotony. The grass became more and
more scanty, and gave place to sickly burdocks and gigantic thistles;
while stunted nettles and other thorny shrubs grew here and there.
Heretofore, a certain moisture, preserved by the clay of the prairie,
freshened the meadows; the vegetation was thick and luxuriant. But now
a patchy growth, bare in many places, exposed the earth, and indicated
the poverty of the soil. These signs of increasing dryness could not be
mistaken, and Thalcave called attention to them.

"I am not sorry at this change," said Tom Austin; "to see always grass,
nothing but grass, becomes tiresome before long."

"But where there is grass there is water," replied the major.

"Oh, we are not in want," said Wilson, "and shall find some river on
our course."

However, when Wilson said that the supply of water would not fail
he had not calculated for the unquenchable thirst that consumed his
companions all that day; and, when he added that they would meet with
some stream in their journey he had anticipated too much. Indeed, not
only were rivers wanting, but even the artificial wells dug by the
Indians were empty. On seeing these indications of dryness increase
from mile to mile, Paganel asked Thalcave where he expected to find
water.

"At Lake Salinas," replied the Indian.

"And when shall we arrive there?"

"To-morrow evening."

The natives ordinarily, when they travel on the Pampas, dig wells, and
find water a few feet below the surface; but the travelers, destitute
of the necessary implements, could not employ this expedient. It was
therefore necessary to obtain a supply in some other way, for, if they
did not absolutely suffer from the tormenting desire for drink, no one
could entirely allay his thirst.

At evening they halted, after a journey of thirty miles. Every one
relied upon a good night to recruit himself after the fatigues of
the day; but they were greatly annoyed by a very persistent swarm of
mosquitoes, which disappeared, however, after the wind changed.

If the major preserved his calmness in the midst of the petty
annoyances of life, Paganel, on the contrary, could not treat the
matter so indifferently. He fought the mosquitoes, and sadly regretted
the absence of his acid-water, which would have soothed the pain of
their bites. Although the major endeavored to console him, he awoke in
a very bad humor.

However, he was very easily persuaded to set out at daybreak, for it
was important to arrive at Lake Salinas the same day. The horses were
very much exhausted: they were dying of thirst; and, although their
riders had denied themselves on their account, still their share of
water had been very limited. The dryness was to-day even greater, and
the heat no less intolerable, with the dusty wind, the simoom of the
Pampas.

[Sidenote: INDIANS AHEAD!]