"I suppose," answered Glenarvan, "that the Patagonian and I will not
need to talk. Besides, with the few Spanish words that I know, I shall
succeed well enough on an emergency in giving him my opinion and
understanding his."

"Go then, my worthy friend," replied Paganel.

"Let us eat first," said Glenarvan, "and sleep till the hour of
departure."

They ate supper without drink, which was rather unrefreshing, and then
fell asleep. Paganel dreamed of torrents, cascades, streams, rivers,
ponds, brooks, nay even full bottles, in short, of everything which
generally contains water. It was a real nightmare.

The next morning at six o'clock the horses were saddled. They gave them
the last drink of water left, which they took with more dislike than
pleasure, for it was very nauseating. The three horsemen then mounted.

"_Au revoir!_" said the major, Austin, Wilson, and Mulready.

Soon the Patagonian, Glenarvan, and Robert (not without a certain
throbbing of the heart) lost sight of the detachment confided to the
sagacity of the geographer.

[Sidenote: THE YOUNG SAILOR ON HORSEBACK.]

Thalcave was right in first proceeding towards the Guamini, since this
stream lay on the prescribed course, and was the nearest. The three
horses galloped briskly forward. These excellent beasts perceived,
doubtless, by instinct, whither their masters were guiding them.
Thaouka, especially, showed a spirit that neither fatigue nor thirst
could overcome. The other horses followed, at a slower pace, but
incited by his example.

The Patagonian frequently turned his head to look at Robert Grant, and,
seeing the young boy firm and erect, in an easy and graceful position,
testified his satisfaction by a word of encouragement.

"Bravo, Robert!" said Glenarvan. "Thalcave seems to congratulate you.
He praises you, my boy!"

"And why, my lord?"

"Because of the way you ride."

"Oh, I merely keep firm; that is all," replied Robert, who blushed with
pleasure at hearing himself complimented.

"That is the main point, Robert," said Glenarvan; "but you are too
modest, and I am sure you cannot fail to become an accomplished
equestrian."

"Well," said Robert, "but what will papa say, who wishes to make a
sailor of me?"

"The one does not interfere with the other. If all horsemen do not make
good sailors, all sailors may certainly make good horsemen. To ride on
the yards, you must learn to keep yourself firm. As for knowing how to
manage your horse, that comes more easily."

"Poor father!" exclaimed Robert; "how he will thank you when you have
found him!" And, so saying, he took his lordship's hand and pressed it
to his lips.

"You love him well, Robert?"

"Yes, my lord; he was so kind to sister and me. He thought only of us,
and every voyage brought us a memento of the countries he visited, and,
what was better, tender caresses and kind words, on his return. Ah!
you will love him too, when you know him! Mary resembles him. He has a
sweet voice like her. It is singular for a sailor, is it not?"

"Yes, very singular, Robert," said Glenarvan.