"I see him still," replied the boy, as if speaking to himself. "Good
and brave papa! He rocked me to sleep on his knees, when I was little,
and kept humming an old Scottish song which is sung around the lakes of
our country. I sometimes recall the air, but indistinctly. How we loved
him, my lord! Well, I think one must be very young to love his father
well."

"And old to reverence him, my child," replied Glenarvan, quite moved by
the words that came from this young heart.

During this conversation, their horses had relaxed their pace and
fallen behind the other; but Thalcave called them, and they resumed
their former gait. It was soon evident, however, that, with the
exception of Thaouka, the horses could not long maintain this speed. At
noon it was necessary to give them an hour's rest.

Glenarvan grew uneasy. The signs of dryness did not diminish, and the
want of water might result in disastrous consequences. Thalcave said
nothing, but probably thought that if the Guamini was dry it would then
be time to despair, if indeed an Indian's heart has ever experienced
such an emotion.

They therefore kept on, and by use of whip and spur the horses were
induced to continue their journey, but they could not quicken their
pace. Thalcave might easily have gone ahead, for in a few hours Thaouka
could have carried him to the banks of the stream. He doubtless thought
of it, but probably did not like to leave his two companions alone in
the midst of this desert, and, that he might not outstrip them, he
forced Thaouka to lessen his speed. It was not, however, without much
resistance, prancing and neighing, that Thalcave's horse consented to
keep pace with the others. It was not so much the strength as the voice
of his master which restrained him; the Indian actually talked to his
horse; and the animal, if he did not answer, at least comprehended
him. The Patagonian must have used excellent arguments, for, after
"discussing" some time, Thaouka yielded, and obeyed his master's
commands.

[Sidenote: GAINED AT LAST.]

But, if Thaouka understood Thalcave, Thalcave had none the less
understood Thaouka. The intelligent animal, through his superior
instincts, had perceived a moisture in the air. He inhaled it eagerly,
and kept moving his tongue, as if it were steeped in a grateful liquid.
The Patagonian could not be deceived; water was not far distant.

He therefore encouraged his companions by explaining the impatience of
his horse, which the others were not long in understanding. They made a
final effort, and galloped after the Indian.

About three o'clock a bright line appeared in a hollow of the plain. It
trembled under the rays of the sun.

"Water!" cried Glenarvan.

"Water, yes, water!" cried Robert.