They began to hunt, therefore, and, disdaining the feathered tribe,
their first attempts were made upon the large game of the Pampas. Soon
hares and guanacos, like those that had attacked them so violently on
the Andes, started up before them by hundreds; but these very timid
animals fled with such swiftness that it was impossible to come within
gun-shot. The hunters, therefore, attacked other game that was less
fleet. A dozen partridges and rails were brought down, and Glenarvan
shot a peccary, which was very good eating.

In less than half an hour they had obtained without difficulty all the
game they needed. Robert captured a curious animal called an armadillo,
which was covered with a sort of helmet of movable bony pieces and
measured a foot and a half in length. It was very fat, and would be an
excellent dish, as the Patagonian said; while Robert was proud of his
success.

As for Thalcave, he showed his companions a "nandou" hunt. This bird,
peculiar to the Pampas, is a kind of ostrich, whose swiftness is
marvelous.

The Indian did not try to decoy so nimble an animal, but urged his
horse to a gallop, straight towards the bird, so as to overtake it
at once, for, if the first attack should fail, the nandou would soon
fatigue both horse and rider with its giddy backward and forward
movements.

Thalcave, arriving at a proper distance, launched his "bolas" with a
strong hand, and so skillfully that they twisted about the legs of
the ostrich and paralyzed its efforts. In a few moments it lay on
the ground. The Indian soon captured his prize and contributed it
to the common repast. The string of partridges, Thalcave's ostrich,
Glenarvan's peccary, and Robert's armadillo were brought back to camp.
The ostrich and the peccary were immediately stripped of their skin
and cut into small slices. As for the armadillo, it is a dainty animal
which carries its roasting dish with it, and it was, accordingly,
placed in its own bony covering on the glowing embers.

The three hunters were satisfied with the partridges for supper, and
kept the rounds of beef for their friends. This repast was washed down
with clear water, which was then considered superior to all the wines
in the world.

The horses were not forgotten. A great quantity of dry fodder, piled in
the ramada, served them for food and bedding.

[Sidenote: DESERT SILENCE.]

When everything was ready, Glenarvan, Robert, and the Indian wrapped
themselves in their ponchos, and stretched their limbs on a bundle of
alfafares, the usual bed of the hunters of the Pampas.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE RED WOLVES.

Night came,--the night of the new moon, only the uncertain light of
the stars illumined the plain. On the horizon the zodiacal light faded
away in a dark mist. The waters of the Guamini flowed without a murmur,
while birds, quadrupeds, and reptiles reposed after the fatigues of
the day. The silence of the desert reigned on the vast expanse of the
Pampas.