Both seized their weapons, and joined the Indian. The latter pointed
to the plain, from which arose a series of formidable howls. Robert
involuntarily took a step backward.

"You are not afraid of the wolves, my boy?" said Glenarvan.

"No, my lord," replied Robert, in a firm tone. "With you I fear
nothing."

"So much the better. These aguaras are not very formidable beasts; and
were it not for their numbers I should not even think of them."

"What does it matter?" replied Robert. "We are well armed. Let them
come."

"And they shall be well received."

Speaking thus, Glenarvan endeavored to reassure the lad; but he did
not think without a secret terror of that dense horde of exasperated
beasts. Perhaps there were hundreds of them; and these three, however
well armed, could not advantageously contend against so many and such
antagonists.

By the howls that resounded over the Pampas, and by the multitude of
shadows that flitted about the plain, Glenarvan could not be mistaken
as to the number. These animals had scented a sure prey, horse-flesh or
human flesh, and not one among them would return to his lair without
having his portion. The situation was, therefore, very alarming.

Meanwhile the circle of wolves grew gradually narrower. The horses,
awakened, gave signs of the liveliest terror. Thaouka alone pawed the
ground, seeking to break his halter, and ready to rush out. His master
succeeded in calming him only by whistling continually.

Glenarvan and Robert had stationed themselves so as to defend the
entrance of the ramada, and with their loaded rifles were about to fire
at the first ranks of wolves, when Thalcave turned aside their weapons
already poised for a shot.

"What does Thalcave wish?" asked Robert.

"He prohibits us from firing," answered Glenarvan.

"Why?"

"Perhaps he does not consider it the proper time."

This was not, however, the motive which actuated the Indian, but a
graver reason, which Glenarvan understood when Thalcave, raising his
powder-flask and inverting it, showed that it was almost empty.

"Well?" said Robert.

"We must economize our ammunition. Our hunt to-day has cost us dear,
and we are deficient in powder and shot. We have not twenty charges
left."

The boy answered nothing.

"You are not afraid, Robert?"

"No, my lord."

"Very well, my boy."

At this moment another report resounded. Thalcave had brought down a
too bold enemy. The wolves that were advancing in close ranks recoiled,
and gathered together again a hundred paces from the inclosure.

[Sidenote: THE LAST HOUR.]