Glenarvan, at a sign from the Indian, took his place at once, while the
latter, collecting the bedding, grass, and all combustible materials,
piled them at the entrance of the ramada and threw on a burning ember.
Soon a curtain of flame was defined against the dark background of the
sky, and through the openings the plain appeared illumined by great
moving reflections. Glenarvan could therefore judge of the great number
of animals against which they had to defend themselves. Never had so
many wolves been seen together before, nor so excited by rapacity. The
fiery barrier that Thalcave had just opposed to them had redoubled
their fury. Some, however, advanced to the very fire, crowded by
the rear ranks, and burned their paws. From time to time a shot was
necessary to check the howling horde, and at the end of an hour fifteen
bodies lay on the prairie.

The besieged were now in a situation relatively less dangerous. So long
as their supplies lasted, so long as the barrier of fire stood at the
entrance to the ramada, invasion was not to be feared. But what was to
be done if all these methods of repelling the wolves should fail at the
same time?

Glenarvan gazed at Robert, and felt his heart beat quick with
excitement. He forgot himself, and thought only of this poor child, who
displayed a courage beyond his years. Robert was pale, but his hand did
not leave his weapon, and he awaited with firm bearing the assault of
the enraged wolves.

Meantime, Glenarvan, after coolly considering the situation, resolved
to do something decisive.

"In one hour," said he, "we shall have no more powder, shot, or fire.
We must not wait till then to make a sally."

He turned towards Thalcave, and, recalling a few words of Spanish,
began a conversation with the Indian, frequently interrupted by the
cracks of the rifle.

It was not without difficulty that these two men succeeded in
understanding each other. Glenarvan, fortunately, knew the habits of
the red wolf. Without this knowledge he could not have interpreted the
words and gestures of the Patagonian.

Nevertheless, a quarter of an hour passed before he could give to
Robert the meaning of Thalcave's answer. He had questioned the Indian
concerning their situation.

"And what did he answer?" inquired Robert.

"He said that, cost what it may, we must hold out till daybreak. The
aguara goes out only at night, and when morning comes he returns to
his lair. He is the wolf of darkness, a cowardly beast that fears the
daylight."

"Well, let us defend ourselves till day."

"Yes, my boy, and with our knives if we can no longer use our guns."

Already Thalcave had set the example, and when a wolf approached the
fire, the long knife of the Patagonian was thrust through the flames
and drawn back again red with blood.