However, the means of defense were failing. About two o'clock in the
morning, Thalcave threw into the fire the last armful of fuel, and the
besieged had only five charges left.

Glenarvan cast about him a sorrowful glance. He thought of the child
who was there, of his companions, of all whom he loved. Robert said
nothing; perhaps the danger did not appear imminent to his hopeful
spirit. But Glenarvan pictured to himself that terrible event, now
apparently inevitable, the being devoured alive! He was not master of
his emotion; he drew the child to his breast, he clasped him to his
heart, he pressed his lips to his forehead, while tears flowed from his
eyes.

Robert gazed at him with a smile. "I am not afraid," said he.

"No, my boy, no," replied Glenarvan; "and you are right. In two hours,
day will appear, and we shall be saved! Well done, Thalcave, my brave
Patagonian!" cried he, as the Indian killed with the butt of his gun
two enormous beasts that were attempting to cross the glowing barrier.

[Sidenote: A DYING HOPE.]

But at this moment the dying light of the fire showed him the aguaras
advancing in a dense body to assail the ramada. The dénouement of the
bloody drama was approaching. The fire gradually subsided, for want
of fuel; the flames sank; the plain, before illumined, now relapsed
into shadow, and in the shadow reappeared the terrible eyes of the red
wolves. A few moments more, and the whole drove would rush into the
inclosure.

Thalcave discharged his carbine for the last time, stretched out one
more of their enemies, and, as his ammunition was exhausted, folded
his arms. His head sank upon his breast; he appeared to be questioning
himself. Was he searching for some bold, novel, or rash scheme for
repelling this furious herd? Glenarvan did not venture to ask him.

At this moment a change took place in the action of the wolves. They
seemed to be retreating, and their howls, so deafening before, suddenly
ceased. An ominous silence reigned over the plain.

"They are going," said Robert.

"Perhaps," replied Glenarvan, who was listening with intentness.

But Thalcave shook his head. He knew well that the animals would not
abandon a certain prey until at daybreak they returned to their holes
and dens.

However, the tactics of their enemies had evidently changed, they no
longer endeavored to force the entrance of the ramada; but their new
manoeuvres were already causing a still more imminent danger.