The wolves, abandoning their design of penetrating the inclosure by
this entrance, which was defended by weapon and fire, went to the
back of the ramada and sought to assail it in the rear. Their claws
were soon heard rattling against the half-decayed wood. Already their
powerful paws and bloody mouths had forced their way between the
shattered stakes. The horses, bewildered and panic-stricken, broke
their halters and dashed into the inclosure. Glenarvan seized Robert
in his arms, to defend him to the last extremity; and he would have
attempted a rash flight, and rushed out of the ramada, had not his eyes
fallen upon the Indian.

Thalcave, turning like a deer, had suddenly approached his horse,
which was neighing with impatience, and was beginning to saddle him
carefully, forgetting neither strap nor buckle. He seemed no longer to
care for the howls, that were now redoubled. Glenarvan gazed at him
with a dark foreboding.

"He is leaving us!" cried he, seeing Thalcave gather up his reins as
though he were about to mount.

"He? never!" said Robert.

In truth the Indian was about to make a venture, not to leave his
friends, but to save them by sacrificing himself. Thaouka was ready.
He champed his bit; he pranced; his eyes, full of a fiery spirit, shot
forth lightning flashes; he understood his master.

Just as the Indian was seizing the mane of his horse, Glenarvan caught
him by the arm with a convulsive grasp.

"You are going?" said he, pointing to the plain, which was now deserted.

"Yes," replied the Indian, who comprehended the gesture of his
companion; and, with vehement gesticulations which were however
perfectly intelligible, he added a few words in Spanish, which
signified: "Thaouka--good horse--swift--will draw the wolves after him."

"Ha! Thalcave!" cried Glenarvan.

"Quick, quick!" continued the Indian; while Glenarvan said to Robert,
in a voice broken by emotion,--

"Robert, my lad, you hear! He will sacrifice himself for us; he will
rush out over the plain, and turn aside the fury of the wolves upon
himself."

"Friend Thalcave," replied Robert, looking imploringly at the
Patagonian, "friend Thalcave, do not leave us!"

"No," said Glenarvan, "he will not leave us."

And, turning to the Indian, he added, pointing to the terrified horses
crowding against the stakes,--

"Let us go together."

"No," said the Indian, who was not mistaken as to the meaning of these
words. "Bad beasts--frightened--Thaouka--good horse."

"Very well," said Glenarvan. "Thalcave shall not leave, Robert. He
shows me what I have to do. It is my duty to go, and his to remain with
you."

Then, seizing Thaouka's bridle, he added,--

"I will go."

"No," replied the Patagonian, calmly.

"I tell you," cried Glenarvan, taking the bridle from the hands of the
Indian, "I will go. Save this boy! I trust him to you, Thalcave!"

Glenarvan, in his excitement, mingled English and Spanish together. But
what matters the language? In such a terrible situation, signs tell
all, and men quickly understand each other.

[Sidenote: SAFETY FOR TWO.]