However, Thalcave resisted, and the discussion was prolonged. The
danger was increasing every moment. Already the broken stakes were
yielding to the teeth and claws of the wolves. But neither Glenarvan
nor Thalcave appeared willing to yield. The Indian had drawn Glenarvan
towards the entrance of the inclosure. He pointed to the plain, now
free from wolves. In his animated language, he explained that not a
moment was to be lost; that the danger, if this plan failed, would be
greater for those who remained; in short, that he alone knew Thaouka
well enough to employ his marvelous agility and speed for the common
safety. Glenarvan blindly persisted in his resolve to sacrifice
himself, when suddenly he was pushed violently back. Thaouka pranced,
reared on his hind legs, and all at once, with a spring, cleared the
barrier of fire and the rampart of bodies, while a boyish voice cried,--

"God save you, my lord!"

Glenarvan and Thalcave had scarcely time to perceive Robert, who,
clinging to the horse's mane, disappeared in the darkness.

"Robert, unfortunate!" cried Glenarvan.

But these words the Indian himself could not hear. Frightful howls
resounded. The wolves, starting on the track of the horse, fled into
the darkness with a terrible speed.

Thalcave and Glenarvan rushed out of the ramada. Already the plain had
resumed its tranquillity, and they could scarcely distinguish a moving
line which undulated afar in the shadows of the night.

Glenarvan sank upon the ground, overcome, in despair, clasping his
hands. He gazed at Thalcave, who smiled with his accustomed calmness.

"Thaouka--good horse--brave child--he will be saved!" he repeated,
nodding his head.

"But if he falls?" said Glenarvan.

"He will not fall!"

In spite of Thalcave's confidence, his companion passed the night in
terrible anguish. He was no longer even mindful of the danger still to
be feared from the wolves. He would have gone in search of Robert, but
the Indian restrained him, and explained that their horses could not
overtake the boy, that Thaouka must have distanced his enemies, and
could not be found in the darkness. They must wait for day to start in
search of Robert.

At four o'clock in the morning day began to break. The mists of the
horizon were soon tinged with pale rays. A sparkling dew covered the
plain, and the tall grass began to wave under the first breezes of the
dawn.

The moment of departure had arrived.

"Forward!" said the Indian.

Glenarvan did not reply, but sprang upon Robert's horse, and the two
were soon galloping towards the west in the direction from which their
companions were to come.

For an hour they traveled thus with great speed, gazing around for
Robert, and dreading at each step to behold his mangled body. Glenarvan
tortured the flanks of his horse with his spurs. Suddenly shots were
heard, and reports at regular intervals, like signals for recognition.

"It is they!" cried Glenarvan.

Thalcave and he urged their horses to a more rapid pace, and a few
moments afterwards they joined the party led by Paganel.