Frequently they skirted the shores of fresh-water lagoons, on whose
banks, in the shelter of the bushes, tiny wrens skipped and melodious
larks warbled, in company with the brilliant-plumaged tanagers. These
pretty birds gayly fluttered about, heedless of the haughty starlings
that strutted on the banks like soldiers with their epaulettes and red
breasts. In the thorny coppices the nests of the annubis swung like
hammocks, and on the shores of the lagoons magnificent flamingoes,
marching in regular file, spread their fiery-colored wings to the wind.
Their nests were seen, by thousands together, like a small village, in
the shape of truncated cones a foot high. The birds were not startled
at the approach of the travelers, which was contrary to Paganel's
calculations.

"I have been curious for a long time," said he to the major, "to see a
flamingo fly."

"Well," said MacNabb.

"Now, since I have an opportunity, I shall profit by it."

"Do so, Paganel."

"Come with me, major, and you too, Robert; I need witnesses."

And Paganel, leaving his companions to go on, proceeded towards the
flock of flamingoes, followed by Robert and the major. Arriving within
range, Paganel fired a blank charge (for he would not needlessly
destroy even a bird), and all the flamingoes flew away, while the
geographer gazed at them attentively through his glasses.

"Well," said he to the major, when the flock had disappeared, "did you
see them fly?"

"Certainly," replied MacNabb; "you could not do otherwise, unless you
were blind. But let us hasten on, for we have fallen a mile behind."

When he had joined his companions, Paganel found Glenarvan in excited
conversation with the Indian, whom he did not appear to understand.
Thalcave had frequently stopped to examine the horizon, and each time
his countenance expressed a lively astonishment. Glenarvan, not seeing
his ordinary interpreter present, had attempted, but in vain, to
question the Patagonian. So, as soon as he perceived the geographer at
a distance, he cried,--

"Come, friend Paganel, Thalcave and I can scarcely succeed in
understanding each other."

Paganel conversed a few moments with the Indian, and, turning to
Glenarvan, said,--

"Thalcave is astonished at a circumstance that is really strange."

"What?"

"At meeting neither Indians, nor any traces of them, on these plains,
which are usually furrowed with their trails, whether they are driving
home the cattle stolen from the ranchos, or going to the Andes to sell
their zorillo carpets and whips of braided leather."

"And to what does Thalcave attribute this abandonment?"

"He cannot tell; he is astonished. That is all."

"But what Indians did he expect to find in this part of the Pampas?"

"The very ones who have had foreign prisoners; those natives who are
commanded by the caziques Calfoucoura, Catriel, and Yanchetruz."

"Who are these caziques?"