"Chiefs of tribes that were very powerful thirty years ago, before they
were driven beyond the sierras. Since that time they have been subdued
as much as an Indian can be, and now scour the Pampas as well as the
province of Buenos Ayres. I am therefore astonished, like Thalcave,
at not encountering traces of them in a country where they generally
pursue the calling of plunderers."

"Well, then," inquired Glenarvan, "what course ought we to take?"

"I will see," replied Paganel.

After a few moments' conversation with Thalcave, he said,--

"This is his advice, which seems to me very wise. We must continue our
journey to the east as far as Fort Independence; and there, if we have
no news of Captain Grant, we shall at least know what has become of the
Indians of the plain."

"Is Fort Independence far?"

"No; it is situated at Tandil, sixty miles distant."

"And when shall we arrive there?"

"On the evening of the day after to-morrow."

Glenarvan was quite disconcerted at finding no Indians on the Pampas,
a circumstance which was little expected. There are ordinarily too
many of them. Some special cause must therefore have removed them.
But a serious question was to be considered. If Captain Grant was a
prisoner of one of these tribes, had he been carried to the north or
to the south? This problem harassed Glenarvan. It was advisable at all
hazards to keep track of the captain. In short, it was better to follow
Thalcave's advice and reach the village of Tandil, where at least they
could obtain information.

About four o'clock in the afternoon they approached a hill that might
have passed for a mountain in so level a country. It was Tapalquem
Sierra, and at its foot the travelers encamped for the night.

[Sidenote: GALLOPING GAUCHOS.]

The passage of this mountain was accomplished the next day with the
greatest ease. They followed the sandy undulations of a gradually
sloping terrace, which certainly did not present difficulties to
people who had scaled the Andes, and the horses scarcely relaxed their
rapid pace. At noon they reached the abandoned Fort Tapalquem, the
first of the chain of forts built on the southern frontier against the
plundering natives. But not a shadow of an Indian did they encounter,
to the increasing surprise of Thalcave; although, towards the middle of
the day, three rovers of the plain, well armed and mounted, gazed for
a moment at the little party, but prevented their approach, galloping
away with incredible rapidity. Glenarvan was furious.

"Gauchos," said the Patagonian.

"Ah! Gauchos," replied MacNabb. "Well, Paganel, what do you think of
these creatures?"

"I think they look like famous bandits," answered Paganel.

"And hence of course are, my dear geographer?"

"Of course, my dear major."

Paganel's avowal was followed by a general laugh, which did not
disconcert him at all.