But this event disconcerted Glenarvan's hopes. If Captain Grant was
a prisoner of the caziques, he must have been carried by them to the
northern frontiers. Yet how and where to find him? Must they attempt
a perilous and almost useless search to the northern limits of the
Pampas? It was a serious matter, which was to be earnestly considered.

However, one important question was still to be asked of the sergeant,
and the major thought of this, while his companions were looking at
each other in silence.

"Have you heard of any Europeans being retained as prisoners by the
caziques of the Pampas?"

Manuel reflected for a few moments, like a man who recalls events to
recollection.

"Yes," said he, at length.

"Ah!" cried Glenarvan, conceiving a new hope.

[Sidenote: REVELATIONS.]

Paganel, MacNabb, Robert, and he now surrounded the sergeant.

"Speak, speak!" cried they, gazing at him with eagerness even in their
looks.

"Several years ago," replied Manuel, "yes,--that is it,--European
prisoners--but have never seen them."

"Several years ago?" said Glenarvan. "You are mistaken. The date of the
shipwreck is definite. The Britannia was lost in June, 1862, less than
two years ago."

"Oh, more than that, my lord!"

"Impossible!" cried Paganel.

"Not at all. It was when Pepe was born. There were two men."

"No, three!" said Glenarvan.

"Two," replied the sergeant, in a positive tone.

"Two?" exclaimed Glenarvan, very much chagrined. "Two Englishmen?"

"No," continued the sergeant. "Who speaks of Englishmen? It was a
Frenchman and an Italian."

"An Italian who was massacred by the Indians?" cried Paganel.

"Yes, and I learned afterwards--Frenchman saved."

"Saved!" exclaimed Robert, whose very life seemed to hang on the
sergeant's lips.

"Yes, saved from the hands of the Indians," replied Manuel.

Each looked to the geographer, who beat his brow in despair.

"Ah! I understand," said he, at last. "All is clear, all is explained."

"But what is to be done?" asked Glenarvan, with as much anxiety as
impatience.

"My friends," answered Paganel, taking Robert's hands, "we must submit
to a severe misfortune. We have followed a false trail! The captive
in question is not the captain, but one of my countrymen (whose
companion, Marco Vazello, was actually assassinated by the Indians),
a Frenchman who often accompanied these cruel savages to the banks of
the Colorado, and who, after fortunately escaping from their hands,
returned to France. While thinking that we were on the track of Captain
Grant, we have fallen upon that of young Guinnard."

A profound silence followed this declaration. The mistake was palpable.
The sergeant's story, the nationality of the prisoner, the murder
of his companion, and his escape from the hands of the Indians, all
accorded with the evident facts. Glenarvan gazed at Thalcave with a
bewildered air. The Indian then resumed the conversation.

"Have you never heard of three English captives?" he asked the sergeant.

"Never," replied Manuel. "It would have been known at Tandil. I should
have heard of it. No, it cannot be."