Glenarvan, after this formal response, had nothing more to do at Fort
Independence. He and his friends, therefore, departed, not without
thanking the sergeant and shaking hands with him.

Glenarvan was in despair at this complete overthrow of his hopes.
Robert walked beside him in silence, with tearful eyes, while his
protector could not find a single word to console him. Paganel
gesticulated and talked to himself. The major did not open his lips.
As for Thalcave, his Indian pride seemed humbled at having gone astray
on a false trail. No one, however, thought of reproaching him for so
excusable an error.

They returned to the encampment, saddened indeed. Still, not one of
the courageous and devoted men regretted so many hardships uselessly
endured, so many dangers vainly incurred. But each saw all hope of
success annihilated in an instant. Could they find Captain Grant
between Tandil and the sea? No. If any prisoner had fallen into the
hands of the Indians on the Atlantic coast, Sergeant Manuel would
certainly have been informed. An event of such a nature could not
have escaped the natives who trade from Tandil to Carmen. Among the
traders of the Argentine Plains everything is known and reported. There
was therefore but one course now to take,--to join, without delay, the
Duncan at Cape Medano, the appointed rendezvous.

In the meantime, Paganel had asked Glenarvan for the document, by
relying on which their search had resulted so unfortunately. He
read it again with unconcealed vexation, seeking to discover a new
interpretation.

"This document is, at all events, clear," said Glenarvan. "It explains
in the most definite manner the shipwreck of the captain and the place
of his captivity."

"No," replied the geographer, stamping with his foot, "a hundred times
no! Since Captain Grant is not on the Pampas, he is not in America.
This document ought to tell where he is; and it shall, my friends, or I
am no longer Jacques Paganel."

CHAPTER XXII.

THE FLOOD.

[Sidenote: OMENS AND MIRAGES.]

Fort Independence is one hundred and fifty miles from the shores of
the Atlantic. But for unforeseen and unexpected delays, Glenarvan
could have rejoined the Duncan in four days. He could not, however,
reconcile himself to the idea of returning on board without Captain
Grant, and failing so completely in his search; and did not therefore,
as usual, give the orders for departure. But the major assumed the
task of saddling the horses, renewing the provisions, and making his
arrangements for the journey. Thanks to his activity, the little party,
at eight o'clock in the morning, was on its way down the grassy slopes
of the Tandil Sierra.