Glenarvan, with Robert at his side, galloped on in silence. His
lordship's bold and resolute character did not permit him to accept
this disappointment calmly. His heart beat violently, and his brain was
on fire. Paganel, tormented by the mystery of the document, arranged
the words in every way, as if to draw from them a new meaning. Thalcave
silently resigned himself to Thaouka's sagacity. The major, always
confident, performed his duties like a man upon whom discouragement can
have no effect. Tom Austin and his two sailors shared their master's
annoyance. Once, when a timid hare crossed the path in front of them,
the superstitious Scotchmen gazed at one another.

"A bad omen," said Wilson.

"Yes, in the Highlands," replied Mulready.

"What is bad in the Highlands is no better here," added Wilson,
sententiously.

About noon the travelers had descended the mountains and gained the
undulating plains that extend to the sea; the boundless prairie spread
its broad carpet of verdure before them.

More than once during the journey the attention and interest of all,
but especially of Paganel, were arrested by the curious illusion of
the mirage, by which was presented in the sky, at the limits of the
horizon, a semblance of the estancias, the poplars and willows near
them, and other objects; the images being so much like the reality that
it required a strong effort to realize their deceptive character.

The weather hitherto had been fine, but now the sky assumed a less
pleasing aspect. Masses of vapor, generated by the high temperature
of the preceding days, condensed into thick clouds and threatened to
dissolve in showers of rain. Moreover, the proximity of the Atlantic,
and the west wind, which here reigns supreme, rendered the climate of
this region peculiarly moist. However, for that day at least the heavy
clouds did not break; and at evening the horses, after traveling forty
miles, halted on the edge of a deep "cañada," an immense natural ditch
filled with water. A shelter was wanting, but the ponchos served for
tents as well as clothing, and peaceful slumbers enwrapped all.

The next day, as they progressed farther, the presence of subterranean
streams betrayed itself more noticeably, and moisture was seen in every
depression of the ground. Soon they came to large ponds, some already
deep and others just forming. So long as there were only lagoons, the
horses could easily extricate themselves; but with these treacherous
swamps it was more difficult. Tall grass obstructed them, and it was
necessary to incur the danger before it could be understood. These
quagmires had been already fatal to more than one human being.

Robert, who had ridden half a mile in advance, returned at a gallop,
crying,--

"Monsieur Paganel! Monsieur Paganel! A forest of horns!"

"What!" replied the geographer, "have you found a forest of horns?"

"Yes, yes; or at least a field."

"A field! you are dreaming, my boy," said Paganel, shrugging his
shoulders.