"I am not dreaming," retorted Robert; "you shall see for yourself. This
is a strange country! People sow horns, and they spring up like corn! I
should like very well to have some of the seed."

"But he speaks seriously," said the major.

"Yes, major, you shall see."

Robert was not mistaken, and soon they found themselves before a vast
field of horns, regularly planted.

"Well?" said Robert.

"This is something singular," replied Paganel, turning towards the
Indian with a questioning look.

[Sidenote: AN ANXIOUS INDIAN.]

"The horns come from the ground," explained Thalcave; "and the cattle
are under it."

"What!" cried Paganel, "is there a whole drove in this mire?"

"Yes," answered the Patagonian.

In fact, a vast herd had perished in this bog, which had given way
beneath them. Hundreds of cattle had thus met their death, side by
side, by suffocation in this vast quagmire. This circumstance, which
sometimes takes place on the plains, could not be ignored by the
Indian, and it was a warning which it was proper to heed. They passed
around this immense hecatomb, which would have satisfied the most
exacting gods of antiquity; and an hour after the field of horns was
far behind.

Thalcave now began to observe with an anxious air the state of things
around him. He frequently stopped, and rose in his stirrups. His tall
form enabled him to survey a wide range; but, perceiving nothing that
could enlighten him, he resumed his undeviating course. A mile farther,
he stopped again, and, turning from the beaten track, proceeded a short
distance, first to the north, then to the south, and then resumed his
place at the head of the party, without saying either what he hoped or
what he feared.

These manoeuvres, many times repeated, puzzled Paganel and annoyed
Glenarvan. The geographer was accordingly requested to interrogate
the Indian, which he did at once. Thalcave replied that he was
astonished to see the plain so soaked with moisture. Never within his
recollection, since he had performed the office of guide, had his feet
trodden a soil so saturated. Even in the season of the great rains the
Argentine plain was always easily passed.

"But to what do you attribute this increasing moisture?" asked Paganel.

"I know not," replied the Indian; "and what if I did?"

"Do the mountain streams, when swollen with the rains, ever overflow
their banks?"

"Sometimes."

"And now, perhaps?"

"Perhaps," said Thalcave.

Paganel was forced to be contented with this answer, and communicated
to Glenarvan the result of the conversation.

"And what does Thalcave advise?" inquired Glenarvan.

"What is to be done?" asked Paganel of the Patagonian.

"Advance quickly," replied the Indian.