This advice was easier to give than to follow. The horses were quickly
fatigued with treading a soil that sank beneath them deeper and deeper
as they progressed, so that this part of the plain might have been
compared to an immense basin in which the invading waters would rapidly
accumulate. It was advisable, therefore, to cross without delay these
sloping terraces that an inundation would have instantly transformed
into a lake.

They hastened their pace, though there was no great depth to the water
which spread out in a sheet beneath the horses' feet. About two o'clock
the flood-gates of the heavens opened, and tropical torrents of rain
descended. Never was a finer opportunity presented for showing oneself
a philosopher. There was no chance of escaping this deluge, and it was
better for the travelers to receive it stoically. Their ponchos were
soon dripping, and their hats wet them still more, like roofs whose
gutters have overflowed. The fringes of the saddle-cloths seemed so
many liquid streams; and the horsemen, bespattered by their animals,
whose hoofs splashed in the water at every step, rode in a double
shower, which came from the ground as well as the sky.

[Sidenote: HYDROPATHIC TREATMENT.]

It was in this wretchedly cold and exhausted state that they arrived,
towards evening, at a very miserable rancho. Only people who were not
fastidious could have given it the name of a shelter, only travelers in
distress would consent to occupy it. But Glenarvan and his companions
had no choice. They therefore cowered down in the abandoned hut which
would not have satisfied even a poor Indian of the plains. A sorry
fire of grass, which gave out more smoke than heat, was kindled with
difficulty. The torrents of rain made havoc without, and large drops
oozed through the mouldy thatch. The fire was extinguished twenty
times, and twenty times did Wilson and Mulready struggle against the
invading water.

The supper was very meagre and comfortless, and every one's appetite
failed. The major alone did justice to the water-soaked repast, and did
not lose a mouthful: he was superior to misfortune. As for Paganel,
like a Frenchman, he tried to joke; but now he failed.

"My jokes are wet," said he: "they miss fire."

However, as it was more agreeable--if possible, under the
circumstances--to sleep, each one sought in slumber a temporary
forgetfulness of his fatigues.

The night was stormy. The sides of the rancho cracked as if they would
break, while the frail structure bent beneath the gusts of wind and
threatened to give way at every shock. The unfortunate horses neighed
in terror without, exposed to the inclemency of the tempest; and their
masters did not suffer less in their miserable shelter. However, sleep
drowned all their troubles at last. Robert first closed his eyes,
reclining his head on Lord Glenarvan's shoulder; and soon all the
inmates of the rancho slept under the protection of God.