They woke the next morning at the call of Thaouka, who, always ready,
neighed without, and struck the wall of the hut vigorously with his
hoof, as though to give the signal for departure. They owed him too
much not to obey him, and they accordingly resumed their journey.

The rain had ceased, but the hard earth held what had fallen. On the
impenetrable clay, pools, marshes, and ponds overflowed and formed
immense "bañados" of treacherous depth. Paganel, on consulting his map,
judged rightly that the Grande and Nivarota Rivers, into which the
waters of the plain usually flow, must have mingled together in one
broad stream.

An extremely rapid advance, therefore, became necessary. The common
safety was at stake. If the inundation increased, where could they find
a refuge? The vast circle of the horizon did not offer a single point,
and on this level plain the progress of the water must be rapid. The
horses were urged to their utmost speed. Thaouka took the lead, and
might have borne the name of sea-horse, for he pranced as if he had
been in his native element.

Suddenly, about six o'clock in the evening, he manifested signs of
extreme agitation. He turned frequently towards the vast expanse to the
south; his neighs were prolonged, his nostrils keenly snuffed the air,
and he reared violently. Thalcave, whom his antics could not unseat,
managed his steed without difficulty. The froth from the horse's mouth
was mingled with blood under the action of the firmly-closed bit, and
yet the spirited animal could not be calm. If free, his master felt but
too well that he would have fled away at full speed towards the north.

"What is the matter with Thaouka?" asked Paganel. "Has he been bitten
by those voracious blood-suckers of the Argentine waters?"

"No," replied the Indian.

"Is he terrified, then, at some danger?"

"Yes, he has scented danger."

"What?"

"I do not know."

Although the eye did not yet reveal the peril that Thaouka divined,
the ear could already detect it. A low murmur, like the sound of a
rising tide, was heard as from the limit of the horizon. The wind blew
in damp gusts laden with spray; the birds, as if fleeing from some
unknown phenomenon, shot swiftly through the air; and the horses,
wading to their knees, felt the first impulse of the current. Soon a
mingled roar, like bellowing, neighing, and bleating, resounded half
a mile to the south, and immense herds appeared, tumbling, rising,
and rushing, a confused mass of terrified beasts, and fled by with
frightful rapidity. It was scarcely possible to distinguish them in the
midst of the clouds of spray dashed up by their flight.

"Quick! quick!" cried Thalcave, in a piercing voice.

"What is it?" said Paganel.

"The flood! the flood!" replied Thalcave, spurring his horse towards
the north.

"The inundation!" cried Paganel; and his companions, with him at their
head, fled away in the track of Thaouka.