It was time. Five miles to the south a high and broad wall of water
was rushing over the plain, which was fast becoming an ocean. The tall
grass disappeared as before the scythe, and the tufts of mimosas, torn
up by the current, separated and formed floating islands. The mass of
waters spread itself in broad waves of irresistible power. The dikes of
the great rivers had evidently given way, and perhaps the waters of the
Colorado and Rio Negro were now mingling in a common stream.

The wall of water descried by Thalcave advanced with the speed of a
race-horse. The travelers fled before it like a cloud driven by the
storm. Their eyes sought in vain a place of refuge. Sky and water
mingled together on the horizon. The horses, excited by the danger,
dashed along in a mad gallop, so that their riders could scarcely keep
their seats. Glenarvan frequently glanced behind him.

"The water is overtaking us," he thought.

"Quick! quick!" cried Thalcave.

[Sidenote: THE ARK.]

The unfortunate beasts were urged to a swifter pace. From their flanks,
lacerated with the spur, flowed bright red streams, which marked
their course on the water by long, crimson lines. They stumbled in
the hollows of the ground; they were entangled in the hidden grass;
they fell and rose again continually. The depth of the water sensibly
increased. Long surges announced the on-rush of the mass of water that
tossed its foaming crests less than two miles distant.

For a quarter of an hour this final struggle against the most terrible
of elements was prolonged. The fugitives could keep no account of the
distance they had traversed; but, judging by the rapidity of their
flight, it must have been considerable.

Meantime the horses, immersed to their breasts, could no longer
advance without extreme difficulty. Glenarvan, Paganel, Austin, all
believed themselves lost, victims of the horrible death of unfortunates
abandoned at sea. Their animals began to lose their footing; six feet
of water was sufficient to drown them.

We must forbear to picture the acute anguish of these eight men
overtaken by a rising inundation. They felt their powerlessness to
struggle against these convulsions of nature, superior to human
strength. Their safety was no longer in their own hands.

Five minutes after, the horses were swimming, while the current alone
carried them along with irresistible force and furious swiftness. All
safety seemed impossible, when the voice of the major was heard.

"A tree!" said he.

"A tree!" cried Glenarvan.

"Yes, yonder!" replied Thalcave, and he pointed northward to a kind of
gigantic walnut-tree, which rose solitary from the midst of the waters.

His companions had no need to be urged. This tree that was opportunely
presented to them they must reach at all hazards. The horses probably
could not accomplish the distance; but the men, at least, could be
saved,--the current would carry them.

At that moment Tom Austin's horse gave a stifled neigh and disappeared.
His rider, extricating himself from the stirrups, began to swim
vigorously.