"Cling to my saddle!" cried Glenarvan to him.

"Thanks, my lord," replied he, "my arms are strong."

"Your horse, Robert?" continued Glenarvan, turning towards the boy.

"All right, my lord, all right! He swims like a fish."

"Attention!" cried the major, in a loud voice.

This word was scarcely pronounced, when the enormous wall of water
reached them. A huge wave, forty feet high, overwhelmed the fugitives
with a terrible roar. Men and beasts, everything, disappeared in a
whirlpool of foam. A ponderous liquid mass engulfed them in its furious
tide. When the deluge had passed, the men regained the surface, and
rapidly counted their numbers; but the horses, except Thaouka, had
disappeared forever.

"Courage! courage!" cried Glenarvan, who supported Paganel with one arm
and swam with the other.

"All right! all right!" replied the worthy geographer; "indeed I am not
sorry----"

What was he not sorry for? No one ever knew; for the poor man was
forced to swallow the end of his sentence in half a pint of muddy water.

The major calmly advanced, taking a regular stroke of which the most
skillful swimmer would not have been ashamed. The sailors worked their
way along like porpoises in their native element. As for Robert, he
clung to Thaouka's mane, and was thus drawn along. The horse proudly
cut the waters, and kept himself instinctively on a line with the tree,
towards which the current bore him, and which was now not far distant.

In a few moments the entire party reached it. It was fortunate; for, if
this refuge had failed, all chance of safety would have vanished, and
they must have perished in the waves. The water was up to the top of
the trunk where the main branches grew, so that it was easy to grasp
them.

Thalcave, leaving his horse, and lifting Robert, seized the first limb,
and soon his powerful arms had lodged the exhausted swimmers in a place
of safety. But Thaouka, carried away by the current, was rapidly
disappearing. He turned his intelligent head towards his master, and,
shaking his long mane, neighed for him beseechingly.

"Do you abandon him?" said Paganel.

"I?" cried the Indian, and, plunging into the tempestuous waters, he
reappeared some distance from the tree. A few moments after, his arm
rested upon the neck of Thaouka, and horse and horseman swam away
together towards the misty horizon of the north.

CHAPTER XXIII.

A SINGULAR ABODE.

The tree upon which Glenarvan and his companions had just found refuge
resembled a walnut-tree. It had the same shining foliage and rounded
form. It was the "ombu," which is met with only on the Argentine
Plains. It had an enormous, twisted trunk, and was confined to the
earth not only by its great roots, but also by strong shoots which held
it most tenaciously. It had thus resisted the force of the inundation.

[Sidenote: AN ORNITHOLOGICAL OMNIUM-GATHERUM.]