This ombu measured one hundred feet in height, and might have covered
with its shade a circumference of three hundred and sixty feet. All
the upper part rested on three great branches, which forked from the
top of the trunk, that was six feet in diameter. Two of these branches
were nearly perpendicular, and supported the immense canopy of foliage,
whose crossed, twisted, and interlaced limbs, as if woven by the hand
of a basket-maker, formed an impenetrable shelter. The third branch,
on the contrary, extended almost horizontally over the roaring waters;
its leaves were bathed in them, while it seemed a promontory to this
island of verdure surrounded by an ocean. There was abundant space,
also, in the interior of this gigantic tree. The foliage, which was
not very dense at its outer circumference, left large openings like
sky-lights, and made it well ventilated and cool. At sight of these
branches rising in innumerable ramifications towards the clouds, while
the parasitic convolvuli bound them to each other, and the rays of the
sun shone through the interstices of the leaves, you would really have
thought that the trunk of this ombu bore upon itself alone an entire
forest.

On the arrival of the fugitives, a feathered population flew away to
the top branches, protesting by their cries against so flagrant a
usurpation of their dwelling. These birds, that had themselves sought
refuge upon this solitary ombu, were seen by hundreds,--blackbirds,
starlings, and many other richly-feathered varieties; and when they
flew away it seemed as if a gust of wind had stripped the tree of its
leaves.

Such was the asylum offered to Glenarvan's little party. Robert and the
nimble Wilson were scarcely perched in the tree, before they hastened
to climb to the topmost branches. Their heads protruded above the dome
of verdure. From this lofty position the view embraced a wide range.
The ocean created by the inundation surrounded them on all sides,
and their eyes could discern no limit. No other tree emerged from
the watery surface; the ombu, alone in the midst of the unconfined
waters, groaned at every shock. At a distance, borne along by the
impetuous current, floated uprooted trunks, twisted branches, thatch
torn from some demolished rancho, beams swept by the waters from the
roofs of cattle-folds, bodies of drowned animals, bloody skins, and,
on a swaying tree, a whole family of growling jaguars that clung with
their claws to this fragile raft. Still farther off, a black speck
almost invisible attracted Wilson's attention. It was Thalcave and his
faithful Thaouka, disappearing in the distance.

[Sidenote: A COMMITTEE OF SUPPLY.]

"Thalcave, friend Thalcave!" cried Robert, stretching out his hands
towards the courageous Patagonian.

"He will be saved, Mr. Robert," said Wilson; "but let us join Lord
Glenarvan."