During their absence Paganel found dry moss in sufficient quantity; he
availed himself of a ray of sunlight, which was easy, for the orb of
day now shone with a vivid brightness, and then, with the aid of his
lens, he kindled without difficulty the combustible materials which
were laid on a bed of leaves in the fork of the branches. It was a
natural fireplace, with no danger of conflagration.

Wilson and Robert soon returned with an armful of dead wood, which was
cast on the fire. Paganel, to cause a draught, placed himself above the
fireplace, his long legs crossed in the Arab fashion; then, moving his
body rapidly up and down, he produced, by means of his poncho, a strong
current of air. The wood kindled, and a bright, roaring flame soon rose
from this improvised oven. Each dried himself in his own way, while the
ponchos, hung on the branches, swung to and fro in the breeze.

They now breakfasted, sparingly however, for they had to allow for the
following day. The immense basin might not perhaps be empty so soon as
Glenarvan hoped, and, moreover, the provisions were limited. The tree
bore no fruit; but fortunately it afforded a remarkable supply of fresh
eggs, thanks to the numerous nests that loaded the branches, not to
speak of their feathered occupants. These resources were by no means to
be despised. The question now was, therefore, in case of a prolonged
stay, how to secure comfortable quarters.

"Since the kitchen and dining-room are on the ground floor," said
Paganel, "we will sleep in the first story. The house is large, the
rent reasonable, and we must take our ease. I perceive that above there
are natural cradles, in which, when we have once laid ourselves, we
shall sleep as well as in the best beds in the world. We have nothing
to fear; moreover, we will keep watch, and there are enough of us to
repulse all the wild animals."

"Only we have no arms," said Tom Austin.

"I have my revolvers," said Glenarvan.

"And I mine," replied Robert.

"What use," continued Tom Austin, "if Mr. Paganel does not find the
means of manufacturing powder?"

"It is not necessary," replied MacNabb, showing a full flask.

"Where did you get that, major?" inquired Paganel.

"Of Thalcave. He thought it might be useful to us, and gave it to me
before going back to Thaouka."

"Brave and generous Indian!" cried Glenarvan.

"Yes," added Tom Austin, "if all the Patagonians are fashioned after
this model, I pay my respects to Patagonia."

"I desire that the horse be not forgotten," said Paganel. "He forms
part of the Patagonian, and, if I am not greatly mistaken, we shall see
them again."

"How far are we from the Atlantic?" inquired the major.