"Not more than forty miles," answered Paganel. "And now, my friends,
since each is free to act, I ask permission to leave you. I am going to
choose an observatory above, and, with the aid of my telescope, will
keep you acquainted with what goes on here."

The geographer was allowed to go. He very adroitly swung himself
from branch to branch, and disappeared behind the thick curtain of
foliage. His companions at once occupied themselves with making the
sleeping-room and preparing their beds, which was neither a difficult
nor a lengthy task. As there were no bedclothes to fix nor furniture to
arrange, each soon resumed his place by the fire.

They then conversed, but not about their present condition, which they
must patiently endure. They returned to the inexhaustible subject of
Captain Grant's recovery. If the waters subsided, in three days the
travelers would be again on board the Duncan. But the captain and his
two sailors, those unfortunate castaways, would not be with them; and
it even seemed after this failure, after this vain search in South
America, as if all hope of finding them were irrevocably lost. Whither
direct a new search? What, too, would be the grief of Lady Helena and
Mary Grant on learning that the future had no hope in store for them!

"Poor sister!" exclaimed Robert; "all is over for us!"

Glenarvan, for the first time, had no consoling answer to make.
What hope could he give the child? Had he not followed with rigorous
exactitude the directions of the document?

"At all events," said he, "this thirty-seventh degree of latitude is
no vain indication. Have we not supposed, interpreted, and ascertained
that it relates to the shipwreck or the captivity of Captain Grant?
Have we not read it with our own eyes?"

"All that is true, my lord," replied Tom Austin; "nevertheless our
search has not succeeded."

"It is discouraging as well as annoying," said Glenarvan.

"Annoying if you will," replied MacNabb, in a calm tone, "but not
discouraging. Precisely because we thus have a definite item, we must
thoroughly exhaust all its instructions."

"What do you mean?" inquired Glenarvan. "What do you think ought to be
done?"

"A very simple and reasonable thing, my dear Edward. Let us turn our
faces towards the east, when we are on board the Duncan, and follow
the thirty-seventh parallel even around to our starting-point, if
necessary."

"Do you think, my dear major, that I have not thought of this?" replied
Glenarvan. "Indeed I have, a hundred times. But what chance have we of
succeeding? Is not leaving the American continent departing from the
place indicated by Captain Grant himself, from Patagonia, so clearly
named in the document?"

"Do you wish to begin your search in the Pampas again," replied the
major, "when you are sure that the shipwreck of the Britannia did not
take place on the Pacific or Atlantic coast?"

Glenarvan did not answer.