"And however feeble the chance of finding Captain Grant by following
this latitude may be, still ought we not to attempt it?"

"I do not deny it," replied Glenarvan.

[Sidenote: APPLIED GEOGRAPHY.]

"And you, my friends," added the major, addressing the sailors, "are
you not of my opinion?"

"Entirely," answered Tom Austin, while Wilson and Mulready nodded
assent.

"Listen to me, my friends," continued Glenarvan, after a few moments
of reflection, "and you too, Robert, for this is a serious question.
I shall do everything possible to find Captain Grant, as I have
undertaken to do, and shall devote my entire life, if necessary,
to this object. All Scotland would join me to save this noble man
who sacrificed himself for her. I too think, however slight may
be the chance, that we ought to make the tour of the world on the
thirty-seventh parallel; and I shall do so. But this is not the point
to be settled: there is a much more important one, and it is this:
Ought we once and for all to abandon our search on the American
continent?"

This question, so directly asked, was unanswered. No one dared to
declare his opinion.

"Well?" resumed Glenarvan, addressing the major more especially.

"My dear Edward," replied MacNabb, "it would involve too great a
responsibility to answer you now. The case requires consideration.
But first of all I desire to know what countries the thirty-seventh
parallel crosses."

"That is Paganel's business," replied Glenarvan.

"Let us ask him, then," said the major.

The geographer was no longer to be seen, as he was hidden by the thick
foliage. It was necessary to call him.

"Paganel! Paganel!" cried Glenarvan.

"Present!" answered a voice which seemed to come to them from the sky.

"Where are you?"

"In my tower."

"What are you doing?"

"Surveying the wide horizon."

"Can you come down a moment?"

"Do you need me?"

"Yes."

"What for?"

"To know what countries the thirty-seventh parallel crosses."

"Nothing easier," replied Paganel; "I need not even disturb myself to
tell you."

"Very well, then."

"Leaving America, the thirty-seventh parallel crosses the Atlantic."

"Good."

"It strikes Tristan d'Acunha Island."

"Well?"

"It passes two degrees to the south of the Cape of Good Hope."

"And then?"

"It runs across the Indian Ocean."

"And then?"

"It grazes St. Paul's Island of the Amsterdam group."

"Go on."

"It cuts Australia across the province of Victoria."

"Proceed."

"Leaving Australia----"

This last sentence was not finished. Did the geographer hesitate?
Did he know no more? No; but a startling cry was heard in the top of
the tree. Glenarvan and his friends grew pale as they gazed at each
other. Had a new calamity happened? Had the unfortunate Paganel fallen?
Already Wilson and Mulready were hastening to his assistance, when a
long body appeared. Paganel dangled from branch to branch. His hands
could grasp nothing. Was he alive, or dead? They did not know; but
he was about to fall into the roaring waters, when the major, with a
strong hand, arrested his progress.