"Very much obliged, MacNabb!" cried Paganel.

"Why, what is the matter with you?" said the major.

"What has got into you? Is this another of your eternal distractions?"

"Yes, yes," replied Paganel, in a voice choked with emotion (and
leaves). "Yes, a distraction,--phenomenal this time."

"What is it?"

"We have been mistaken! We are still mistaken!"

"Explain yourself."

"Glenarvan, major, Robert, my friends," cried Paganel, "all you who
hear me, we are seeking Captain Grant where he is not."

"What do you say?" cried Glenarvan.

"Not only where he is not," added Paganel, "but even where he has never
been."

CHAPTER XXIV.

PAGANEL'S DISCLOSURE.

A profound astonishment greeted these unexpected words. What did the
geographer mean? Had he lost his senses? He spoke, however, with
such conviction that all eyes were turned towards Glenarvan. This
declaration of Paganel was a direct answer to the question the former
had asked. But Glenarvan confined himself to a negative gesture,
indicating disbelief in the geographer, who, as soon as he was master
of his emotion, resumed.

"Yes," said he, in a tone of conviction, "yes, we have gone astray in
our search, and have read in the document what is not written there."

"Explain yourself, Paganel," said the major; "and more calmly."

[Sidenote: A NEW IDEA.]

"That is very simple, major. Like you, I was in error; like you, I
struck upon a false interpretation. When, but a moment ago, at the top
of this tree, in answer to the question, at the word 'Australia' an
idea flashed through my mind, and all was clear."

"What!" cried Glenarvan, "do you pretend that Captain Grant----"

"I pretend," replied Paganel, "that the word _Austral_ in the document
is not complete, as we have hitherto supposed, but the root of the word
_Australia_."

"This is something singular," said the major.

"Singular!" replied Glenarvan, shrugging his shoulders; "it is simply
impossible!"

"Impossible," continued Paganel, "is a word that we do not allow in
France."

"What!" added Glenarvan, in a tone of the greatest incredulity, "do you
pretend, with that document in your possession, that the shipwreck of
the Britannia took place on the shores of Australia?"

"I am sure of it!" replied Paganel.

"By my faith, Paganel," said Glenarvan, "this is a pretension that
astonishes me greatly, coming from the secretary of a geographical
society."

"Why?" inquired Paganel, touched in his sensitive point.

"Because, if you admit the word Australia, you admit at the same time
that there are Indians in that country, a fact which has not yet been
proved."

Paganel was by no means surprised at this argument. He seemingly
expected it, and began to smile.

"My dear Glenarvan," said he, "do not be too hasty in your triumph.
I am going to defeat you completely, as no Englishman has ever been
defeated."

"I ask nothing better. Defeat me, Paganel."

"Listen, then. You say that the Indians mentioned in the document
belong exclusively to Patagonia. The incomplete word _indi_ does not
mean Indians, but natives (_indigènes_). Now do you admit that there
are natives in Australia?"