It must be confessed that Glenarvan now gazed fixedly at Paganel.

"Bravo, Paganel!" said the major.

"Do you admit my interpretation, my dear lord?"

"Yes," replied Glenarvan, "if you can prove to me that the imperfect
word _gonie_ does not relate to the country of the Patagonians."

"No," cried Paganel, "it certainly does not mean Patagonia. Read
anything you will but that."

"But what?"

"_Cosmogonie! théogonie! agonie!_"

"_Agonie!_" cried the major.

"That is indifferent to me," replied Paganel; "the word has no
importance. I shall not even search for what it may signify. The
principal point is that _Austral_ means Australia, and we must have
been blindly following a false trail, not to have discovered before so
evident a meaning. If I had found the document, if my judgment had not
been set aside by your interpretation, I should never have understood
it otherwise."

This time cheers, congratulations, and compliments greeted Paganel's
words. Austin, the sailors, the major, and Robert especially, were
delighted to revive their hopes, and applauded the worthy geographer.
Glenarvan, who had gradually been undeceived, was, as he said, almost
ready to surrender.

"One last remark, my dear Paganel, and I have only to bow before your
sagacity."

"Speak!"

"How do you arrange these newly-interpreted words, and in what way do
you read the document?"

"Nothing is easier. Here is the document," said Paganel, producing the
precious paper that he had studied so conscientiously for several
days. A profound silence ensued, while the geographer, collecting his
thoughts, took his time to answer. His finger followed the incomplete
lines on the document, while, in a confident tone, he expressed himself
in the following terms:

"'June 7th, 1862, the brig Britannia, of Glasgow, foundered after'--let
us put, if you wish, 'two days, three days,' or, 'a long struggle,'--it
matters little, it is quite unimportant,--'on the coast of Australia.
Directing their course to shore, two sailors and Captain Grant
endeavored to land,' or 'did land on the continent, where they will
be,' or 'are prisoners of cruel natives. They cast this document,' and
so forth. Is it clear?"

"It is clear," replied Glenarvan, "if the word _continent_ can be
applied to Australia, which is only an island."

"Be assured, my dear Glenarvan, the best geographers are agreed in
naming this island the Australian continent."

"Then I have but one thing to say, my friends," cried Glenarvan. "To
Australia, and may Heaven assist us!"

"To Australia!" repeated his companions, with one accord.

"Do you know, Paganel," added Glenarvan, "that your presence on board
the Duncan is a providential circumstance?"

"Well," replied Paganel, "let us suppose that I am an envoy of
Providence, and say no more about it."

[Sidenote: A FESTIVE BANQUET.]