Thus ended this conversation, that in the future led to such great
results. It completely changed the moral condition of the travelers.
They had caught again the thread of the labyrinth in which they had
thought themselves forever lost. A new hope arose on the ruins of
their fallen projects. They could fearlessly leave behind them this
American continent, and already all their thoughts flew away to the
Australian land. On reaching the Duncan, they would not bring despair
on board, and Lady Helena and Mary Grant would not have to lament the
irrevocable loss of the captain. Thus they forgot the dangers of their
situation in their new-found joy, and their only regret was that they
could not start at once.

It was now four o'clock in the afternoon, and they resolved to take
supper at six. Paganel wished to celebrate this joyful day by a
splendid banquet. As the bill of fare was very limited, he proposed
to Robert that they should go hunting "in the neighboring forest,"
at which idea the boy clapped his hands. They took Thalcave's
powder-flask, cleaned the revolvers, loaded them with fine shot, and
started.

"Do not go far," said the major, gravely, to the two huntsmen.

After their departure Glenarvan and MacNabb went to consult the notches
on the tree, while Wilson and Mulready revived the smouldering embers.

Arriving at the surface of this immense lake, they saw no sign of
abatement. The waters seemed to have attained their highest elevation;
but the violence with which they rolled from south to north proved that
the equilibrium of the Argentine rivers was not yet established. Before
the liquid mass could lower, it must first become calm, like the sea
when flood-tide ends and ebb begins. They could not, therefore, expect
a subsidence of the waters so long as they flowed towards the north
with such swiftness.

While Glenarvan and the major were making these observations, reports
resounded in the tree, accompanied by cries of joy almost as noisy.
The clear treble of Robert contrasted sharply with the deep bass of
Paganel, and the strife was which should be the most boyish. The hunt
promised well, and gave hopes of culinary wonders.

When the major and Glenarvan returned to the fire, they had to
congratulate Wilson upon an excellent idea. The honest sailor had
devoted himself to fishing with wonderful success, with the aid of
a pin and a piece of string. Several dozen of little fish, delicate
as smelts, called "mojarras," wriggled in a fold of his poncho, and
seemed likely to make an exquisite dish.