At this moment the hunters descended from the top of the tree. Paganel
carefully carried some black swallows' eggs and a string of sparrows,
which he meant afterwards to serve up as larks. Robert had adroitly
brought down several pairs of "hilgueros,"--little green-and-yellow
birds, which are excellent eating, and very much in demand in the
Montevideo market. The geographer, who knew many ways of preparing
eggs, had to confine himself this time to cooking them in the hot
ashes. However, the repast was as varied as it was delicate. The dried
meat, the hard eggs, the broiled mojarras, and the roast sparrows and
hilgueros, formed a repast which was long remembered.

The conversation was very animated. Paganel was greatly complimented in
his twofold capacity of hunter and cook, and accepted these encomiums
with the modesty that belongs to true merit. Then he gave himself up to
singular observations on the magnificent tree that sheltered them with
its foliage, and whose extent, as he declared, was immense.

"Robert and I," said he jokingly, "imagined ourselves in the open
forest during the hunt. One moment I thought we should be lost. I could
not find my way. The sun was declining towards the horizon. I sought
in vain to retrace my steps. Hunger made itself felt acutely. Already
the gloomy coppices were resounding with the growls of ferocious
beasts,--but no, there are no ferocious beasts, and I am sorry."

"What!" cried Glenarvan, "you are sorry there are no ferocious beasts?"

"Certainly."

"But, when you have everything to fear from their ferocity----"

"Ferocity does not exist,--scientifically speaking," replied the
geographer.

"Ha! this time, Paganel," said the major, "you will not make me admit
the utility of ferocious beasts. What are they good for?"

"Major," cried Paganel, "they are good to form classifications, orders,
families, genera, sub-genera, species----"

"Very fine!" said MacNabb. "I should not have thought of that! If I
had been one of Noah's companions at the time of the deluge, I should
certainly have prevented that imprudent patriarch from putting into
the ark pairs of tigers, lions, bears, panthers, and other animals as
destructive as they were useless."

"Should you have done so?" inquired Paganel.

"I should."

"Well, you would have been wrong in a zoological point of view."

"But not in a human one."

"This is shocking," continued Paganel; "for my part, I should have
preserved all the animals before the deluge of which we are so
unfortunately deprived."

"I tell you," replied MacNabb, "that Noah was right in abandoning them
to their fate, admitting that they lived in his time."

"I tell you that Noah was wrong," retorted Paganel, "and deserves the
malediction of scholars to the end of time."

The listeners to this argument could not help laughing at seeing the
two friends dispute about what Noah ought to have done or left undone.
The major, who had never argued with any one in his life, contrary to
all his principles, was every day at war with Paganel, who must have
particularly excited him.