Glenarvan, according to his custom, interrupted the debate, and said,--

[Sidenote: WANTED, A JAGUAR!]

"However much it is to be regretted, in a scientific or human point of
view, that we are deprived of ferocious animals, we must be resigned
to-day to their absence. Paganel could not hope to encounter any in
this aerial forest."

"No," replied the geographer, "although we beat the bush. It is a pity,
for it would have been a glorious hunt. A ferocious man-eater like the
jaguar! With one blow of his paw he can twist the neck of a horse. When
he has tasted human flesh, however, he returns to it ravenously. What
he likes best is the Indian, then the negro, then the mulatto, and then
the white man."

"However that may be, my good Paganel," said Glenarvan, "so long as
there are no Indians, mulattoes, or negroes among us, I rejoice in
the absence of your dear jaguars. Our situation is not, of course, so
agreeable----"

"What!" cried Paganel, "you complain of your lot?"

"Certainly," replied Glenarvan. "Are you at your ease in these
uncomfortable and uncushioned branches?"

"I have never been more so, even in my own study. We lead the life of
birds; we sing and flutter about. I almost think that men were destined
to live in the trees."

"They only want wings," said the major.

"They will make them some day."

"In the meantime," replied Glenarvan, "permit me, my dear friend, to
prefer the sand of a park, the floor of a house, or the deck of a
vessel to this aerial abode."

"Glenarvan," said Paganel, "we must take things as they come. If
favorable, so much the better; if unfavorable, we must not mind it. I
see you long for the comforts of Malcolm Castle."

"No, but----"

"I am certain that Robert is perfectly happy," interrupted Paganel, to
secure one advocate, at least, of his theories.

"Yes, Monsieur Paganel!" cried the boy, in a joyful tone.

"It is natural at his age," replied Glenarvan.

"And at mine," added the geographer. "The less ease we have, the fewer
wants; the fewer wants, the happier we are."

"Well," said the major, "here is Paganel going to make an attack upon
riches and gilded splendor."

"No, my dear major," continued Paganel; "but, if you wish, I will tell
you, in this connection, a little Arab story that occurs to me."

"Yes, yes, Monsieur Paganel," cried Robert.

"And what will your story prove?" asked the major.

"What all stories prove, my brave companion."

"Not much, then," replied MacNabb. "But go on, Scheherezade, and tell
one of those stories that you relate so well."