"There was once upon a time," said Paganel, "a son of the great
Haroun-al-Raschid who was not happy. He accordingly consulted an old
dervish, who told him that happiness was a very difficult thing to
find in this world. 'However,' added he, 'I know an infallible way
to procure you happiness.' 'What is it?' inquired the young prince.
'It is,' replied the dervish, 'to put on the shirt of a happy man.'
Thereupon the prince embraced the old man, and set out in search of his
talisman. He visited all the capitals of the earth; he tried the shirts
of kings, emperors, princes, and nobles; but it was a useless task, he
was no happier. Then he put on the shirts of artists, warriors, and
merchants, but with no more success. He had thus traveled far, without
finding happiness. At last, desperate from having tried so many shirts,
he was returning very sadly one beautiful day to the palace of his
father, when he spied in the field an honest laborer, who was joyously
singing as he ploughed. 'Here is, at all events, a man who possesses
happiness,' said he to himself, 'or happiness does not exist on earth.'
He approached him. 'Good man,' said he, 'are you happy?' 'Yes,' replied
the other. 'You wish for nothing?' 'No.' 'You would not change your lot
for that of a king?' 'Never!' 'Well, sell me your shirt!' 'My shirt! I
have none!'"

CHAPTER XXV.

BETWEEN FIRE AND WATER.

Jacques Paganel's story had a very great success. He was greatly
applauded, but each retained his own opinion, and the geographer
obtained the result common to most discussions,--of convincing nobody.
However, they were agreed on this point, that it was necessary to have
courage for every fortune, and be contented with a tree when one has
neither palace nor cottage.

During the course of this confabulation evening had come on. Only a
good sleep could thoroughly refresh, after this eventful day. The
inmates of the tree felt themselves not only fatigued by the sudden
changes of the inundation, but especially overcome by the heat, which
had been excessive. Their feathered companions had already set the
example; the hilgueros, those nightingales of the Pampas, had ceased
their melodious warblings, and all the birds had disappeared in the
recesses of the foliage. The best plan was to imitate them.

But before "retiring to their nest," as Paganel said, Glenarvan,
Robert, and he climbed to the observatory, to examine for the last
time the watery expanse. It was about nine o'clock. The sun had just
set in the sparkling mists of the horizon, and all the western part
of the firmament was bathed in a warm vapor. The constellations,
usually so dazzling, seemed veiled in a soft haze. Still they could
be distinguished, and Paganel pointed out to Robert, for Glenarvan's
benefit, that zone where the stars are most brilliant.

[Sidenote: PHILOSOPHY AND PONCHOS.]