Violent thunder-claps interrupted this conversation, and their
intensity increased till they reached the most deafening peals.
They soon became sonorous, and made the atmosphere vibrate in rapid
oscillations. The firmament was on fire, and during this commotion
it was impossible to distinguish from what electric spark emanated
the indefinitely-prolonged rumblings that reverberated throughout the
abysses of the sky.

The incessant flashes assumed various forms. Some, darting
perpendicularly towards the earth, were repeated five or six times in
the same place; others, separating into a thousand different branches,
spread in zigzag lines and produced on the dark vault of the heavens
astonishing jets of arborescent flame. Soon the sky, from east to
north, was crossed by a phosphorescent band of intense brilliancy. This
illumination gradually overspread the entire horizon, lighting up the
clouds like a bonfire, and was reflected in the mirror-like waters,
forming what seemed to be an immense circle of fire, of which the tree
occupied the centre.

Glenarvan and his companions watched this terrific spectacle in
silence. Sheets of dazzling light glided towards them, and blinding
flashes followed in rapid succession, now showing the calm countenance
of the major, then the speculative face of Paganel or the energetic
features of Glenarvan, and again the frightened look of Robert or the
unconcerned expression of the sailors. The rain, however, did not fall
as yet, nor had the wind risen. But soon the flood-gates of the heavens
opened, and the rain came down in torrents, the drops, as they struck
the surface of the water, rebounding in thousands of sparks illuminated
by the incessant lightning.

Did this rain predict the end of the storm? Were Glenarvan and his
companions to be released with a few thorough drenchings? At the height
of this struggle of the elements, suddenly there appeared at the end
of the branch which extended horizontally, a flaming globe, of the
size of a fist, and surrounded by a black smoke. This ball, after
revolving a few moments, burst like a bombshell, and with a noise that
was distinguishable in the midst of the general tumult. A sulphurous
vapor filled the atmosphere. There was a moment of silence, and then
Tom Austin was heard crying,--

"The tree is on fire!"

He was right. In a moment the flame, as if it had been communicated
to an immense piece of fireworks, spread along the west side of the
tree. The dead limbs, the nests of dry grass, and finally the live wood
itself, furnished material for the devouring element.

The wind now rose and fanned the flames into fury. Glenarvan and his
friends, speechless with terror, and venturing upon limbs that bent
beneath their weight, hastily took refuge in the other, the eastern
part of the tree.