"Friends!" said the Patagonian, who had waited for them there, knowing
that the current would carry them as it had carried him.

At the same moment he raised Robert in his arms and clasped him to his
breast. Glenarvan, the major, and the sailors, delighted to see their
faithful guide again, shook his hands with the most earnest cordiality.
The Patagonian then conducted them to an abandoned estancia. Here
a good fire was burning, which revived them, and on the coals were
roasting succulent slices of venison, to which they did ample justice.
And when their refreshed minds began to reflect, they could scarcely
believe that they had escaped so many perils,--the fire, the water, and
the formidable alligators.

Thalcave, in a few words, told his story to Paganel, and ascribed to
his intrepid horse all the honor of having saved him. Paganel then
endeavored to explain to him the new interpretation of the document,
and the hopes it led them to entertain. Did the Indian understand the
geographer's ingenious suppositions? It was very doubtful; but he saw
his friends happy and very confident, and he desired nothing more.

It may be easily believed that these courageous travelers, after their
day of rest on the tree, needed no urging to resume their journey. At
eight o'clock in the morning they were ready to start. They were too
far south to procure means of transport, and were therefore obliged
to travel on foot. The distance, however, was only forty miles, and
Thaouka would not refuse to carry from time to time a tired pedestrian.
In thirty-six hours they would reach the shores of the Atlantic.

[Sidenote: IN THE DARK.]

As soon as refreshed the guide and his companions left behind them
the immense basin, still covered with the waters, and proceeded across
elevated plains, on which, here and there, were seen groves planted by
Europeans, meadows, and occasionally native trees. Thus the day passed.

The next morning, fifteen miles before reaching the ocean, its
proximity was perceptible. They hastened on in order to reach Lake
Salado, on the shores of the Atlantic, the same day. They were
beginning to feel fatigued, when they perceived sand-hills that hid the
foaming waves, and soon the prolonged murmur of the rising tide struck
upon their ears.

"The ocean!" cried Paganel.

"Yes, the ocean!" replied Thalcave.

And these wanderers, whose strength had seemed almost about to fail,
climbed the mounds with wonderful agility. But the darkness was
profound, and their eyes wandered in vain over the gloomy expanse. They
looked for the Duncan, but could not discern her.

"She is there, at all events," said Glenarvan, "waiting for us."

"We shall see her to-morrow," replied MacNabb.