"Who is that?" cried he.

"I."

"Who?"

"Glenarvan. Come, I need your eyes."

"My eyes?" replied Paganel, rubbing them vigorously.

"Yes, your eyes, to distinguish the Duncan in this darkness. Come."

"And why my eyes?" said Paganel to himself, delighted, nevertheless, to
be of service to Glenarvan.

He rose, shaking his torpid limbs in the manner of one awakened from
sleep, and followed his friend along the shore. Glenarvan requested
him to survey the dark horizon to seaward. For several moments Paganel
conscientiously devoted himself to this task.

"Well, do you perceive nothing?" asked Glenarvan.

"Nothing. Not even a cat could see two paces before her."

"Look for a red or a green light, on the starboard or the larboard
side."

"I see neither a red nor a green light. All is darkness," replied
Paganel, whose eyes were thereupon involuntarily closed.

For half an hour he mechanically followed his impatient friend in
absolute silence, with his head bowed upon his breast, sometimes
raising it suddenly. He tottered along with uncertain steps, like those
of a drunken man. At last Glenarvan, seeing that the geographer was in
a state of somnambulism, took him by the arm, and, without waking him,
led him back to his sand-hole, and comfortably deposited him therein.

At break of day they were all started to their feet by the cry,--

[Sidenote: IMPATIENCE.]

"The Duncan! the Duncan!"

"Hurrah! hurrah!" replied Glenarvan's companions, rushing to the shore.

The Duncan was indeed in sight. Five miles distant, the yacht was
sailing under low pressure, her main-sails carefully reefed, while her
smoke mingled with the mists of the morning. The sea was high, and a
vessel of her tonnage could not approach the shore without danger.

Glenarvan, provided with Paganel's telescope, watched the movements of
the Duncan. Captain Mangles could not have perceived them, for he did
not approach, but continued to coast along with only a reefed top-sail.

At this moment Thalcave, having loaded his carbine heavily, fired it in
the direction of the yacht. They gazed and listened. Three times the
Indian's gun resounded, waking the echoes of the shore.

At last a white smoke issued from the side of the yacht.

"They see us!" cried Glenarvan. "It is the Duncan's cannon."

A few moments after, a heavy report rang out on the air, and the
Duncan, shifting her sail and putting on steam, was seen to be
approaching the shore. By the aid of the glass they saw a boat leave
the ship's side.

"Lady Helena cannot come," said Tom Austin: "the sea is too rough."

"Nor Captain Mangles," replied MacNabb: "he cannot leave his vessel."

"My sister! my sister!" cried Robert, stretching his arms towards the
yacht, which rolled heavily.

"I hope I shall soon get on board!" exclaimed Glenarvan.

"Patience, Edward! You will be there in two hours," replied MacNabb.

Glenarvan now joined Thalcave, who, standing with folded arms alongside
of Thaouka, was calmly gazing at the waves.

Glenarvan took his hand, and, pointing to the yacht, said,--

"Come!"

The Indian shook his head.