Thus had our travelers accomplished the journey across South America
on a rigorously straight line. Neither mountains nor rivers had turned
them aside from their course; and, although they were not forced to
struggle against the evil designs of men, the relentless fury of the
elements had often tested their generous intrepidity to its utmost
powers of endurance.

CHAPTER XXVII.

A NEW DESTINATION.

The first moments were consecrated to the happiness of meeting.
Lord Glenarvan did not wish the joy in the hearts of his friends to
be chilled by tidings of their want of success. His first words,
therefore, were,--

"Courage, my friends, courage! Captain Grant is not with us, but we are
sure to find him."

It needed only such an assurance to restore hope to the passengers of
the Duncan. Lady Helena and Mary Grant, while the boat was approaching
the ship, had experienced all the anguish of suspense. From the deck
they endeavored to count those who were returning. At one time the
young girl would despair; at another she would think she saw her
father. Her heart beat quickly; she could not speak; she could scarcely
stand. Lady Helena supported her, while Captain Mangles stood beside
her in silence. His keen eyes, accustomed to distinguish distant
objects, could not discern the captain.

"He is there! he is coming! my father!" murmured the young girl.

But as the boat gradually drew near, the illusion vanished. Not only
Lady Helena and the captain, but Mary Grant, had now lost all hope. It
was, therefore, time for Glenarvan to utter his assuring words.

[Sidenote: "BREAKFAST!"]

After the first embraces, all were informed of the principal incidents
of the journey; and, first of all, Glenarvan made known the new
interpretation of the document, due to the sagacity of Jacques Paganel.
He also praised Robert, of whom his sister had a right to be proud.
His courage, his devotion, and the dangers that he had overcome, were
conspicuously set forth by his noble friend, so that the boy would not
have known where to hide himself, if his sister's arms had not afforded
him a sure refuge.

"You need not blush, Robert," said Captain Mangles; "you have behaved
like the worthy son of Captain Grant."

He stretched out his arms towards Mary's brother, and pressed his lips
to the boy's cheeks, which were still wet with tears.

They then spoke of the generous Thalcave. Lady Helena regretted that
she could not have shaken hands with the brave Indian. MacNabb, after
the first outbursts of enthusiasm, repaired to his cabin to shave
himself. As for Paganel, he flitted hither and thither, like a bee,
extracting the honey of compliments and smiles. He wished to embrace
all on board the Duncan, and, beginning with Lady Helena and Mary
Grant, ended with Mr. Olbinett, the steward, who could not better
recognize such politeness than by announcing breakfast.

"Breakfast!" cried Paganel.

"Yes, Mr. Paganel," replied Olbinett.

"A real breakfast, on a real table, with table-cloth and napkins?"

"Certainly."