"And shall we not eat hard eggs, or ostrich steaks?"

"Oh, Mr. Paganel!" replied the worthy steward, greatly embarrassed.

"I did not mean to offend you, my friend," said the geographer; "but
for a month our food has been of that sort, and we have dined, not at
a table, but stretched on the ground, except when we were astride of
the trees. This breakfast that you have just announced seemed to me,
therefore, like a dream, a fiction, a chimera."

"Well, we will test its reality, Monsieur Paganel," replied Lady
Helena, who could not help laughing.

"Accept my arm," said the gallant geographer.

"Has your lordship any orders to give?" inquired Captain Mangles.

"After breakfast, my dear fellow," replied Glenarvan, "we will discuss
in council the programme of the new expedition."

The passengers and the young captain then descended to the cabin.
Orders were given to the engineer to keep up steam, that they might
start at the first signal. The major and the travelers, after a rapid
toilette, seated themselves at the table. Ample justice was done to
Mr. Olbinett's repast, which was declared excellent and even superior
to the splendid banquets of the Pampas. Paganel called twice for every
dish, "through absent-mindedness," as he said. This unfortunate word
led Lady Helena to inquire if the amiable Frenchman had occasionally
shown his habitual failing. The major and Lord Glenarvan looked at each
other with a smile. As for Paganel, he laughed heartily, and promised
"upon his honor" not to commit a single blunder during the entire
voyage. He then in a very comical way told the story of his mistake in
the study of Spanish.

"After all," he added, in conclusion, "misfortunes are sometimes
beneficial, and I do not regret my error."

"And why, my worthy friend?" asked the major.

"Because I not only know Spanish, but Portuguese also. I speak two
languages instead of one."

"By my faith, I should not have thought of that," replied MacNabb. "My
compliments, Paganel, my sincere compliments!"

[Sidenote: TABLE-TALK IN THE SOUTH ATLANTIC.]

Paganel was applauded, but did not lose a single mouthful. He did not,
however, notice one peculiarity observed by Glenarvan, and that was the
young captain's attentions to his neighbor, Mary Grant. A slight sign
from Lady Helena to her husband told him how matters stood. He gazed at
the two young people with affectionate sympathy, and finally addressed
the captain, but upon a different subject.

"How did you succeed with your voyage, captain?" he inquired.

"Excellently," replied the captain; "only I must inform your lordship
that we did not return by way of the Strait of Magellan."

"What!" cried Paganel, "you doubled Cape Horn, and I was not there!"

"Hang yourself!" said the major.

"Selfish fellow! you give me this advice in order that you may share my
rope!" retorted the geographer.

"Well, my dear Paganel," added Glenarvan, "unless we are endowed with
ubiquity, we cannot be everywhere. Since you crossed the Pampas, you
could not at the same time double Cape Horn."