"Nevertheless, I am sorry," replied the geographer.

Captain Mangles now told the story of his voyage, and was congratulated
by Glenarvan, who, addressing Mary Grant, said,--

"My dear young lady, I see that Captain John pays his homage to your
noble qualities, and I am happy to find that you are not displeased
with his ship."

"Oh, how could I be?" replied Mary, gazing at Lady Helena, and perhaps
also at the young captain.

"My sister loves you, Mr. Captain," cried Robert, "and I do too."

"And I return your love, my dear boy," replied Captain Mangles, a
little confused by Robert's words, which also brought a slight blush to
the face of the young girl.

Then, changing the conversation to a less embarrassing subject, the
captain added,--

"Since I have related the Duncan's voyage, will not your lordship give
us a few particulars of your travels, and the exploits of our young
hero?"

No recital could have been more agreeable to Lady Helena and Miss
Grant, and Glenarvan hastened to satisfy their curiosity. He told, word
for word, all about their journey from ocean to ocean. The passage
of the Andes, the earthquake, Robert's disappearance, his capture by
the condor, Thalcave's fortunate shot, the adventure with the wolves,
the boy's devotion, the meeting with Sergeant Manuel, the inundation,
their refuge in the tree, the lightning, the fire, the alligators,
the water-spout, the night on the shores of the Atlantic, all these
incidents, cheerful or serious, excited alternately the joy and terror
of his hearers. Many a circumstance was related that brought Robert
the caresses of his sister and Lady Helena. Never was boy more highly
praised, or by more enthusiastic friends.

"Now, my friends," remarked Lord Glenarvan, when he had finished his
recital, "let us think of the present. Let us return to the subject of
Captain Grant."

When breakfast was over, the party repaired to Lady Helena's
state-room, and, taking seats around a table loaded with maps and
charts, resumed the conversation. Glenarvan explained that the
shipwreck had not taken place on the shores either of the Pacific or
the Atlantic, and that, consequently, the document had been wrongly
interpreted so far as Patagonia was concerned; that Paganel, by a
sudden inspiration, had discovered the mistake and proved that they had
been following a false trail. The geographer was accordingly asked to
explain the French document, which he did to the satisfaction of every
one. When he had finished his demonstration, Glenarvan announced that
the Duncan would immediately set sail for Australia.

The major, however, before the order was given, asked permission to
make a single remark.

"Speak, major," said Glenarvan.

"My object," said MacNabb, "is not to invalidate the arguments of my
friend Paganel, still less to refute them. I consider them rational,
sagacious, and worthy of our whole attention. But I desire to submit
them to a final examination, that their validity may be incontestable."

No one knew what the prudent MacNabb meant, and his hearers listened
with some anxiety.