"Go on, major," said Paganel: "I am ready to answer all your questions."

"Nothing can be simpler," said the major. "Five months ago, in
the Frith of Clyde, when we studied the three documents, their
interpretation seemed clear to us. No place but the western coast of
Patagonia could, we thought, have been the scene of the shipwreck. We
had not even the shadow of a doubt on the subject."

"Very true," added Glenarvan.

"Afterwards," resumed the major, "when Paganel, in a moment of
providential absent-mindedness, embarked on board our vessel, the
documents were submitted to him, and he unhesitatingly sanctioned our
search upon the American coast."

"You are right," observed the geographer.

"And, nevertheless, we are mistaken," said the major.

"Yes, we are mistaken," repeated Paganel; "but to be mistaken is only
to be human, while it is the part of a madman to persist in his error."

"Wait, Paganel," continued the major; "do not get excited. I do not
mean that our search ought to be prolonged in America."

"What do you ask, then?" inquired Glenarvan.

"Simply the acknowledgment that Australia now seems to be the scene of
the Britannia's shipwreck as much as South America did before."

"Granted," replied Paganel.

"Who knows, then," resumed the major, "whether, after Australia,
another country may not offer us the same probabilities, and whether,
when this new search proves vain, it may not seem evident that we ought
to have searched elsewhere?"

[Sidenote: FRIENDS IN COUNCIL.]

Glenarvan and Paganel glanced at each other. The major's remarks were
strictly correct.

"I desire, therefore," added MacNabb, "that a final test be made before
we start for Australia. Here are the documents and maps. Let us examine
successively all points that the thirty-seventh parallel crosses, and
see if there is not some other country to which the document has as
precise a reference."

"Nothing is easier," replied Paganel.

The map was placed before Lady Helena, and all showed themselves ready
to follow Paganel's demonstration. After carefully examining the
documents, it was unanimously agreed that Paganel's interpretation was
the correct one.

"I leave you, therefore, my friends," said he, in conclusion, "to
decide whether all the probabilities are not in favor of the Australian
continent."

"Evidently," replied the passengers and the captain with unanimity.

"Captain," said Glenarvan, "have you sufficient provisions and coal?"

"Yes, my lord, I procured ample supplies at Talcahuana, and, besides,
we can lay in a fresh stock of fuel at Cape Town."

"One more remark," said the major.

"A thousand, if you please!"

"Whatever may be the guarantees for success in Australia, will it not
be well to call for a day or two, in passing, at the islets of Tristan
d'Acunha and Amsterdam? They are situated so near our strict line of
search, that it is worth our while to ascertain if there be on them any
trace of the shipwreck of the Britannia."

"The unbeliever!" said Paganel.

"I do not want to have to return to them, monsieur, if Australia does
not after all realize our newly-conceived expectations."