"The precaution is not a bad one," said Glenarvan.

"And I do not wish to dissuade you; quite the contrary," replied the
geographer.

"Well, then, we will adopt it, and start forthwith," said Lord
Glenarvan.

"Immediately, my lord," replied the captain, as he went on deck, while
Robert and Mary Grant uttered the liveliest expressions of gratitude;
and the Duncan, leaving the American coast and heading to the east, was
soon swiftly ploughing the waves of the Atlantic.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

TRISTAN D'ACUNHA AND THE ISLE OF AMSTERDAM.

[Sidenote: LOOKING ALOFT.]

The Duncan now had before her a broad stretch of ocean but little
traversed by navigators. Between the shores of South America and the
little speck in the ocean known by the name of Tristan d'Acunha, there
was no probability of her meeting with any strange sail; and under some
circumstances, or in some company, the days might have been monotonous
and the hours might have hung wearily. But so ardent was the desire
for success, and so accomplished, yet varied, were the characters of
those who composed the little assembly, that the voyage on the South
Atlantic, though devoid of striking incident, was by no means wanting
in interest. Much of the time was spent on deck, where the ladies'
cabins were now located, Mary Grant especially training her hand, head,
and heart in feeling, thought, and action. The geographer set to work
on a composition entitled "Travels of a Geographer on the Argentine
Pampas;" but many a blank page did he leave. Tho Scottish peer (when
tired of examining for the thousandth time all that belonged to his
yacht) could look at the books and documents which he had brought with
him, intending to peruse them carefully. And as to the major he was
never in company and never out of company; his cigar insured, nothing
else was wanted.

Ever and anon many miles of the ocean would be covered by masses of
sea-weed; these different species of algæ would afford subject for
research; specimens must be preserved, authorities must be consulted,
and as one result at least all would become wiser. Then a discussion
would ensue on some geographical problem, and maps that were not
attainable were of course appealed to by each disputant, though the
subject in question was often of very trivial moment. It was in the
midst of a debate of this kind, during the evening, that a sailor cried
out,--

"Land ahead!"

"In what direction?" asked Paganel.

"To windward," replied the sailor.

The landsmen's eyes were strained, but to no purpose. The geographer's
telescope was brought into requisition, but with no avail. "I do not
see the land," said its owner.

"Look into the clouds," said the captain.

"Ah!" replied Paganel, struck with the idea, and shortly with the
reality also; for there was the barren mountain-top of Tristan d'Acunha.

"Then," said he, "if I remember aright, we are eighty miles from it. Is
not that the distance from which this mountain is visible?"

"Exactly so," replied the captain.