A few hours brought them much nearer to the group of high and steep
rocks, and at sunrise they saw the conical peak of Tristan, seemingly
separated from all the rest of the rocky group, and reflecting the
glory of the blue heavens and of the rising orb on the placid sea at
its base.

There are three islets in this group,--Tristan d'Acunha, Inaccessible,
and Rossignol; but it was only at the first

of these that the Duncan called. Inquiry was made
of the authorities (for these islets are governed by a British official
from the Cape of Good Hope) if there were any tidings of the Britannia.
But nothing was known of such a ship; they were told of the shipwrecks
which had occurred, but there was nothing that afforded a clue to that
which they sought. They spent some hours in examination of the fauna
and flora, which were not very extensive. They saw and were seen by the
sparse population that subsist here, and in the afternoon of the same
day the yacht left the islands and islanders so rarely visited.

Whilst the passengers had been thus engaged, Lord Glenarvan had allowed
his crew to employ their time advantageously to themselves in capturing
some of the seals which are so plentiful in these latitudes. A few
hours of their united toil resulted in the death of a large number
of seals who were "caught napping," and in the stowing away, for the
profit of the crew when they should reach the Australian market,
several barrels of the oil obtained from their carcases.

Still onward on the same parallel lay the course of the Duncan,
towards the Isles of Amsterdam and St. Paul; and the same subjects
of conversation, study, and speculation engaged them all, until, one
morning, they espied the first mentioned island, far ahead; and as they
drew nearer, a peak rose clearly before their vision which strongly
reminded them of the Peak of Teneriffe they had beheld a few months
before.

[Sidenote: WARM SPRINGS AND WARM TALK.]

The Isle of Amsterdam or St. Peter, and the Isle of St. Paul, have been
visited by very few, and but little is known of them. The latter is
uninhabited; but our friends found a few voluntary exiles on the former
island, who, by means of seal-fishing, eke out a scanty existence in
this out-of-the-way spot. Here again inquiry was made, but in vain,
for any information of the Britannia, her voyage, or her shipwreck.
Neither on the Isle of Amsterdam nor on that of St. Paul, which the
whalers and seal-fishers sometimes visit, had there been any trace of
the catastrophe.