Desolate as these lonely islands appeared to our travelers, they still
were not devoid of objects of interest. They were meagre enough in
vegetation and in animal life; but there were warm springs which well
repaid a visit. Captain Mangles found the temperature of their waters
to be 166° Fahrenheit; and, inasmuch as this was sufficient to cook
fish, Paganel decided that it was not necessary for him to bathe here
"geographically."

When they resumed their course, though many miles were before them,
there was a growing sense of anticipation; they were not to pause again
until the "Australian continent" was reached; and more and more did
the conversation and discussions tend towards this continent as their
subject. On one occasion so certain was Paganel as to the ease with
which they would be able to pursue their search, when they arrived,
that he asserted that more than fifty geographers had already made the
course clear for them.

"What! fifty, do you say?" asked the major, with an air of doubt.

"Yes, MacNabb, decidedly," said the geographer, piqued at the hesitancy
to believe him.

"Impossible!" replied the major.

"Not at all; and if you doubt my veracity, I will cite their names."

"Ah!" said the major, quietly, "you clever people stick at nothing."

"Major," said Paganel, "will you wager your rifle against my telescope
that I cannot name at least fifty Australian explorers?"

"Of course, Paganel, if you like," replied MacNabb, seeing that he
could not now recede from his position without incurring the ridicule
of the company.

"Well, then," said Paganel to Lady Helena and Miss Grant, "come and
be umpires, and Master Robert shall count for us." And forthwith the
learned geographer opened his budget, and poured forth the history of
the discovery of Australia, with the names of its discoverers and the
dates of their explorations, as fluently as though his sole calling in
life was to be professor of Australian history. Rapidly he mentioned
the first twenty who found or traversed the Austral shores; as rapidly
did the names of the second score flow from his lips; and after the
prescribed fifty had been enumerated, he kept on as though his list
were inexhaustible.

"Enough, enough, Monsieur Paganel!" said Lady Helena. "You have shown
that there is nothing, great or small, about Australia, of which you
are ignorant."

"Nay, madam," said the geographer, with a bow.

Then, with a peculiar expression, he smiled as he said to the major,
"We will talk about the rifle at another time."

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE STORM ON THE INDIAN OCEAN.