Two days after this conversation, Captain Mangles took an observation,
and the passengers saw, to their great satisfaction, upon consulting
the map, that they were in the vicinity of Cape Bernouilli, which
they might expect to reach in four days. The west wind had hitherto
favored the progress of the yacht, but for several days it had shown a
tendency to fail, and now there was a perfect calm. The sails flapped
idly against the masts, and had it not been for her powerful screw, the
Duncan would have been becalmed on the ocean.

[Sidenote: FOREBODINGS OF DISASTER.]

This state of things might be prolonged indefinitely. At evening
Glenarvan consulted the captain on the subject. The latter, whose
supply of coal was rapidly diminishing, appeared much disturbed at the
subsidence of the wind. He had covered his ship with canvas, and set
his studding- and main-sails, that he might take advantage of the least
breeze; but, in nautical language, there was not enough wind "to fill a
hat."

"At all events," said Glenarvan, "we need not complain. It is better to
be without wind than to have a contrary one."

"Your lordship is right," replied Captain Mangles; "but I dread some
sudden change in the weather. We are now in the neighborhood of the
trade-winds, which, from October to April, blow from the northeast, and
our progress will, therefore, be very much retarded."

"But what can we do, captain? If this misfortune occurs, we must submit
to it. It will only be a delay, after all."

"Probably, if a storm does not come upon us too."

"Do you fear bad weather?" asked Glenarvan, looking at the sky, which,
however, was cloudless.

"Yes," replied the captain. "I tell your lordship, but would conceal my
apprehensions from Lady Helena and Miss Grant."

"You act wisely. What do you apprehend?"

"There are signs of a great storm. Do not trust the appearance of the
sky, my lord; nothing is more deceptive. For two days the barometer
has fallen to an alarming degree. This is a warning that I cannot
disregard. I particularly fear the storms of the South Seas, for I have
been already exposed to them."

"John," replied Glenarvan, "the Duncan is a stout vessel, and her
captain a skillful seaman. Let the storm come; we will take care of
ourselves."

Captain Mangles, while giving expression to his fears, was by no means
forgetful of his duty as a sailor. The steady fall of the barometer
caused him to take every measure of precaution. The sky, as yet, gave
no indication of the approaching tempest; but the warnings of his
infallible instrument were not to be disregarded.