The young captain accordingly remained on deck all night. About eleven
o'clock the sky grew threatening towards the south. All hands were
immediately called on deck, to take in the sails. At midnight the wind
freshened. The creaking of the masts, the rattling of the rigging,
and the groaning of bulkheads informed the passengers of the state of
affairs. Paganel, Glenarvan, the major, and Robert came on deck to
render assistance if it should be needed. Over the sky, that they had
left clear and studded with stars, now rolled thick clouds broken by
light bands and spotted like the skin of a leopard.

"Has the storm broken upon us?" asked Glenarvan.

"Not yet, but it will presently," replied the captain.

At that moment he gave the order to reef the top-sail. The sailors
sprang into the windward rattlings, and with difficulty accomplished
their task. Captain Mangles wished to keep on as much sail as possible,
to support the yacht and moderate her rolling. After these precautions
had been taken, he told the mate and the boatswain to prepare for the
assault of the tempest, which could not be long in breaking forth.
Still, like an officer at the storming of a breach, he did not leave
the point of observation, but from the upper deck endeavored to draw
from the stormy sky its secrets.

[Sidenote: AN ADDED CALAMITY.]

It was now one o'clock in the morning. Lady Helena and Miss Grant,
aroused by the unusual bustle, ventured to come on deck. The wind was
sharply whistling through the cordage, which, like the strings of a
musical instrument, resounded as if some mighty bow had caused their
rapid vibrations; the pulleys clashed against each other; the ropes
creaked with a sharp sound in their rough sockets; the sails cracked
like cannon, and vast waves rolled up to assail the yacht, as it
lightly danced on their foaming crests.

When the captain perceived the ladies, he approached and besought them
to return to the cabin. Several waves had already been shipped, and the
deck might be swept at any moment. The din of the elements was now so
piercing that Lady Helena could scarcely hear the young captain.

"Is there any danger?" she managed to ask him during a momentary lull
in the storm.

"No, madam," replied he; "but neither you nor Miss Mary can remain on
deck."

The ladies did not oppose an order that seemed more like an entreaty,
and returned to the cabin just as a wave, rolling over the stern,
shook the compass-lights in their sockets. The violence of the wind
redoubled; the masts bent under the pressure of sail, and the yacht
seemed to rise on the billows.

"Brail up the main-sail!" cried the captain; "haul in the top-sails and
jibs!"

The sailors sprang to their places; the halyards were loosened, the
brails drawn down, the jibs taken in with a noise that rose above the
storm, and the Duncan, whose smoke-stack belched forth torrents of
black smoke, rolled heavily in the sea.