Glenarvan, the major, Paganel, and Robert gazed with admiration and
terror at this struggle with the waves. They clung tightly to the
rigging, unable to exchange a word, and watched the flocks of stormy
petrels, those melancholy birds of the storm, as they sported in the
raging winds.

At that moment a piercing sound was heard above the roar of
the hurricane. The steam was rapidly escaping, not through the
escape-valve, but through the pipes of the boiler. The alarm-whistle
sounded with unusual shrillness; the yacht gave a terrible lurch, and
Wilson, who was at the helm, was overthrown by an unexpected blow
of the wheel. The vessel was in the trough of the sea, and no longer
manageable.

"What is the matter?" cried Captain Mangles, rushing to the stern.

"The ship is careening!" replied Austin.

"Is the rudder unhinged?"

"To the engine! to the engine!" cried the engineer.

The captain rushed down the ladder. A cloud of steam filled the
engine-room; the pistons were motionless in their cylinders, and the
cranks gave no movement to the shaft. The engineer, seeing that all
efforts were useless, and fearing for his boilers, had let out the
steam through the escape-valve.

"What has happened?" asked the captain.

"The screw is either bent or entangled," replied the engineer; "it will
not work."

"Is it impossible to free it?"

"Impossible, at present."

To attempt to repair the accident at that moment was out of the
question. The screw would not move, and the steam, being no longer
effective, had escaped through the valves. The captain was, therefore,
forced to rely on his sails, and seek the aid of the wind, which had
been hitherto his most dangerous enemy.

He came on deck, and, briefly informing Glenarvan of the situation,
begged him to return to the cabin with the others; but the latter
wished to remain.

"No, my lord," replied Captain Mangles, in a firm tone: "I must be
alone here with my crew. Go! The ship may be in danger, and the waves
would drench you unmercifully."

"But we may be of use----"

"Go, go, my lord; you must! There are times when I am master on board.
Retire, as I wish!"

[Sidenote: THE STRUGGLE CONTINUED.]

For John Mangles to express himself so authoritatively, the situation
must have been critical. Glenarvan understood that it was his duty to
obey. He therefore left the deck, followed by his three companions, and
joined the ladies in the cabin, who were anxiously awaiting the result
of this struggle with the elements.

"My brave John is an energetic man," remarked Glenarvan as he entered.