Meantime Captain Mangles lost no time in extricating the ship from
her perilous situation. He resolved to keep towards the Cape, that he
might deviate as little as possible from his prescribed course. It was,
therefore, necessary to brace the sails obliquely to the wind. The
top-sail was reefed, a kind of fore-sail rigged on the main-stay, and
the helm crowded hard aport. The yacht, which was a stanch and fleet
vessel, started like a spirited horse that feels the spur, and proudly
breasted the angry billows.

The rest of the night was passed in this situation. They hoped that the
tempest would abate by break of day. Vain hope! At eight o'clock in the
morning it was still blowing hard, and the wind soon became a hurricane.

The captain said nothing, but he trembled for his vessel and those
whom she carried. The Duncan now and then gave a fearful lurch; her
stanchions cracked, and sometimes the yards of the mainmast struck the
crests of the waves. At one moment the crew thought the yacht would
not rise again. Already the sailors, hatchet in hand, were rushing
to cut away the fore-shrouds, when they were violently torn from
their fastenings by the blast. The ship righted herself, but, without
support on the waves, she was tossed about so terribly that the masts
threatened to break at their very foundations. She could not long
endure such rolling; she was growing weak, and soon her shattered sides
and opening seams must give way for the water.

[Sidenote: NEARING THE END.]

Captain Mangles had but one resource,--to rig a storm-jib. He succeeded
after several hours' labor, but it was not until three o'clock in the
afternoon that the jib was hauled to the main-stay and set to the
wind. With this piece of canvas the Duncan flew before the wind
with inconceivable rapidity. It was necessary to keep up the greatest
possible speed, for upon this alone depended her safety. Sometimes,
outstripping the waves, she cut them with her slender prow and plunged
beneath them, like an enormous sea-monster, while the water swept
her deck from stem to stern. At other times her swiftness barely
equaled that of the surges, her rudder lost all power, and she gave
terrific lurches that threatened to capsize her. Then, impelled by the
hurricane, the billows outran her; they leaped over the taffrail, and
the whole deck was swept with tremendous violence.