The situation was indeed alarming. The captain would not leave his
post for an instant. He was tortured by fears that his impassive face
would not betray, and persistently sought to penetrate with his gaze
the gathering gloom. And he had good cause for fear. The Duncan, driven
out of her course, was running towards the Australian coast with a
swiftness that nothing could arrest. He felt, too, as if by instinct,
that a strong current was drawing him along. At every moment he feared
the shock of a reef upon which the yacht would be dashed into a
thousand pieces, and he calculated that the shore was not more than a
dozen miles to leeward.

Finally he went in search of Lord Glenarvan, consulted with him in
private, explained their actual situation, viewed it with the coolness
of a sailor who is ready for any emergency, and ended by saying that he
should be obliged perhaps to run the Duncan ashore.

"To save those she carries, if possible, my lord," he added.

"Very well, captain," replied Glenarvan.

"And Lady Helena and Miss Grant?"

"I will inform them only at the last moment, when all hope is gone of
keeping at sea. You will tell me."

"I will, my lord."

Glenarvan returned to the ladies, who, without knowing all the danger,
felt it to be imminent. They displayed, however, a noble courage, equal
at least to that of their companions. Paganel gave himself up to the
most unreasonable theories concerning the direction of atmospheric
currents, while the major awaited the end with the indifference of a
Mussulman.

About eleven o'clock the hurricane seemed to moderate a little, the
heavy mists were gradually dissipated, and through the openings the
captain could see a low land at least six miles to leeward. He steered
directly for it. Huge waves rolled to a prodigious height, and he knew
that they must have a firm point of support to reach such an elevation.

"There are sand-bars here," said he to Tom Austin.

"That is my opinion," replied the mate.

"We are in the hands of God," continued the captain. "If He does not
himself guide the Duncan over the bar, we are lost."

"It is high tide now, captain; perhaps we may do it."

"But see the fury of those waves! What ship could resist them? God help
us, my friend!"

Meantime the Duncan dashed towards the shore with terrible swiftness.
Soon she was only two miles from the sand-bars. The mists still
continued to conceal the land. Nevertheless Captain Mangles thought he
perceived, beyond this foaming barrier, a tranquil haven, where the
Duncan would be in comparative safety. But how to reach it?

He called the passengers on deck, for he did not wish, when the hour
of shipwreck had come, that they should be confined in the cabin.
Glenarvan and his companions gazed at the awful sea. Mary Grant grew
pale.