"John," said Glenarvan in a low tone to the young captain, "I will try
to save my wife, or will perish with her. Do you take charge of Miss
Grant."

[Sidenote: OILY INFLUENCES.]

"Yes, your lordship," was the prompt reply.

The Duncan was now only a few cable-lengths from the sand-bars. As it
was high tide, there would doubtless have been sufficient water to
enable the yacht to cross these dangerous shoals; but the enormous
waves upon which she rose and fell would infallibly have wrecked her.
Was there then any means of allaying these billows, of calming this
tumultuous sea?

A sudden idea occurred to the captain.

"The oil!" cried he; "pour on oil, men, pour on oil!"

These words were quickly understood by all the crew. They were about
to employ a method that sometimes succeeds. The fury of the sea can
often be appeased by covering it with a sheet of oil, which floats
on the surface and destroys the shock of the waters. The effect is
instantaneous, but transient. As soon as a ship has crossed this
treacherous sea, it redoubles its fury; and woe to those who would
venture to follow.

The barrels containing the supply of seal-oil were hoisted into the
forecastle by the crew, to whom the danger gave new strength. Here
they were stove in with a blow of the hatchet, and suspended over the
starboard rattlings.

"Hold on!" cried the captain, waiting for the favorable moment.

In a few seconds the yacht reached the entrance to the pass, which was
barred by a terrible line of foam.

"Let go!" cried the young captain.

The barrels were inverted, and from their sides streamed floods of oil.
Immediately the unctuous liquid leveled the foaming surface of the sea,
and the Duncan sailed on calm waters, and was soon in a quiet harbor
beyond the terrible sand-bars; and then the ocean, released from its
fetters, bounded after its escaped prey with indescribable fury.

CHAPTER XXX.

A HOSPITABLE COLONIST.

The captain's first care was to secure anchorage. He moored the vessel
in five fathoms of water. The bottom was good, a hard gravel, affording
an excellent hold. There was no danger of drifting, or of stranding at
low tide. The Duncan, after so many hours of peril, was now in a sort
of creek sheltered by a high promontory from the fury of the wind.

Lord Glenarvan shook the hand of the young captain, saying,--

"Thanks, John!"

And Captain Mangles felt himself fully rewarded by these simple words.
Glenarvan kept to himself the secret of his anguish, and neither Lady
Helena, Mary Grant, nor Robert suspected the magnitude of the perils
they had just escaped.