One important point remained to be settled. On what part of the
coast had the Duncan been cast by the storm? How could she regain
her prescribed course? How far were they from Cape Bernouilli? Such
were the first questions addressed to the captain, who at once took
his bearings and noted his observations on the map. The Duncan had
not deviated very far from her route. She was at Cape Catastrophe, on
the southern coast of Australia, not three hundred miles from Cape
Bernouilli.

But could the Duncan's injuries be repaired? This was the question to
decide. The captain wished to know the extent of the damage. It was
discovered, by diving, that a flange of the screw was bent and came
in contact with the stern-post. Hence it was impossible for the screw
to rotate. This injury was considered serious enough to necessitate
going into dry-dock, which of course could not be done in their present
locality.

Glenarvan and the captain, after mature reflection, resolved that
the Duncan should follow the western shore, seeking traces of the
Britannia, should stop at Cape Bernouilli, where further information
could be obtained, and then continue southward to Melbourne, where her
injuries could be repaired; and, as soon as this was done, that she
should cruise along the eastern shores to finish the search.

This arrangement was approved, and Captain Mangles resolved to take
advantage of the first favorable wind. He did not have to wait long.
Towards evening the hurricane had entirely subsided, and a moderate
breeze was blowing from the southwest. Preparations were made for
getting under way; new sails were set, and at four o'clock in the
morning the sailors heaved at the capstan, the anchor was weighed, and
the Duncan, with all sails set, cruised close to windward along the
coast.

They arrived at Cape Bernouilli without finding the least trace of the
lost vessel. But this failure proved nothing. Indeed, during the two
years since the shipwreck, the sea might have scattered or destroyed
the fragments of the brig. Besides, the natives, who scent shipwrecks
as a vulture does a corpse, might have carried away every vestige of
it. Harry Grant and his two companions, therefore, without doubt, had
been taken prisoners the moment the waves cast them ashore, and been
carried into the interior of the country.

[Sidenote: HOPING AGAINST HOPE.]