But here one of Paganel's ingenious suppositions failed. So long as
they were in the Argentine territory, the geographer could rightly
maintain that the latitude of the document referred to the place of
captivity,--not to the scene of the shipwreck. Indeed, the great rivers
of the Pampas and their numerous affluents could easily bear the
document to the sea. In this part of Australia, on the contrary, few
streams cross the thirty-seventh parallel, and the principal Australian
rivers--the Murray, the Yara, the Torrens, and the Darling--either flow
into each other, or empty into the ocean by mouths where navigation
is active. What probability was there, then, that a fragile bottle
could have descended these continually navigated waters, and reached
the Indian Ocean? This consideration could not escape such sagacious
minds. Paganel's supposition, plausible in Patagonia, was illogical
in Australia. The geographer perceived this in a discussion on the
subject with the major. It was clear that the latitude applied only to
the place of shipwreck, and that consequently the bottle had been cast
into the sea where the Britannia was wrecked,--on the western coast of
Australia.

However, as Glenarvan justly observed, this interpretation did not
preclude the possibility of Captain Grant's captivity, who, moreover,
had intimated as much by the words "where they will be prisoners of the
cruel Indians." But there was no more reason for seeking the prisoners
on the thirty-seventh parallel than on any other.

This conclusion, after much discussion, was finally accepted, and it
was decided that, if no traces of the Britannia were found at Cape
Bernouilli, Lord Glenarvan should return to Europe, relinquishing all
hope of finding the object of their search.

This resolution occasioned profound grief to the children of the lost
captain. As the boats containing the whole of the party were rowed
ashore, they felt that the fate of their father would soon be probably
decided; irrevocably, we may say, for Paganel, in a former discussion,
had clearly demonstrated that the shipwrecked seamen would have reached
their country long ago, if their vessel had stranded on the other, the
eastern coast.

[Sidenote: A NEW PROSPECT.]

"Hope! hope! never cease to hope!" said Lady Helena to the young girl
seated beside her, as they approached the shore. "The hand of God will
never fail us."

"Yes, Miss Mary," said the captain; "when men have exhausted human
resources, then Heaven interposes, and, by some unforeseen event, opens
to them new ways."

"God grant it, captain!" replied Mary.

The shore was now only a cable's length distant. The cape terminated in
gentle declivities extending far out into the sea. The boat entered a
small creek, between banks of coral in process of formation, which in
time would form a chain of reefs along the southern coast of the island.