The passengers of the Duncan disembarked on a perfectly barren shore.
Steep cliffs formed a lofty sea-wall, and it would have been difficult
to scale this natural rampart without ladders or cramping-irons.
Fortunately, the captain discovered a breach half a mile southward,
caused by a partial crumbling of the cliffs. Probably the sea, during
violent equinoctial storms, had beaten against this fragile barrier,
and thus caused the fall of the upper portions of the mass.

Glenarvan and his companions entered this opening, and reached the
summit of the cliffs by a very steep ascent. Robert climbed an abrupt
declivity with the agility of a cat, and arrived first at the top,
to the great chagrin of Paganel, who was quite mortified at seeing
himself outstripped by a mere lad of twelve. However, he distanced the
peaceable major; but that worthy was utterly indifferent to his defeat.

The little party surveyed the plain that stretched out beneath them.
It was a vast, uncultivated tract, covered with bushes and brushwood,
and was compared by Glenarvan to the glens of the Scottish lowlands,
and by Paganel to the barren lands of Brittany. But though the country
along the coast was evidently uninhabited, the presence of man, not the
savage, but the civilized worker, was betokened by several substantial
structures in the distance.

"A mill!" cried Robert.

True enough, at no great distance apparently, the sails of a mill were
seen.

"It is indeed a mill," replied Paganel. "Here is a beacon as modest as
it is useful, the sight of which delights my eyes."

"It is almost a belfry," said Lady Helena.

"Yes, madam; and while one makes bread for the body, the other
announces bread for the soul. In this respect they resemble each other."

"Let us go to the mill," replied Glenarvan.

They accordingly started. After half an hour's walk the soil assumed
a new aspect. The transition from barren plains to cultivated fields
was sudden. Instead of brushwood, quick-set hedges surrounded an
inclosure freshly ploughed. Some cattle, and half a dozen horses,
grazed in pastures encircled by acacias. Then fields of corn were
reached, several acres of land bristling with the yellow ears, haycocks
like great bee-hives, vineyards with blooming inclosures, a beautiful
garden, where the useful and the ornamental mingled; in short, a fair
and comfortable locality, which the merry mill crowned with its pointed
gable and caressed with the moving shadow of its sails.

At this moment a man of about fifty, of prepossessing countenance,
issued from the principal house, at the barking of three great dogs
that announced the coming of the strangers. Five stout and handsome
boys, his sons, accompanied by their mother, a tall, robust woman,
followed him. This man, surrounded by his healthful family, in the
midst of these new erections, in this almost virgin country, presented
the perfect type of the colonist, who, endeavoring to better his lot,
seeks his fortune and happiness beyond the seas.