Glenarvan and his friends had not yet introduced themselves, they had
not had time to declare either their names or their rank, when these
cordial words saluted them:--

[Sidenote: AN AUSTRALIAN HOME.]

"Strangers, welcome to the house of Patrick O'Moore."

"You are an Irishman?" said Glenarvan, taking the hand that the
colonist offered him.

"I was," replied Mr. O'Moore. "Now I am an Australian. But come in,
whoever you are, gentlemen; this house is at your service."

The invitation so hospitably given was accepted without ceremony. Lady
Helena and Mary Grant, conducted by Mrs. O'Moore, entered the house,
while the colonist's sons relieved the visitors of their fire-arms.

A large, cool, airy room occupied the ground-floor of the house,
which was built of stout beams arranged horizontally. Several wooden
benches, built into the walls, and painted in gay colors, ten stools,
two oaken trunks, in which white china and jugs of polished pewter were
arranged, and a long table, at which twenty people could be comfortably
seated, constituted the furniture, worthy of the house and its hardy
inhabitants.

Dinner was soon served. Dishes of soup smoked between roast beef and
legs of mutton, flanked by large plates of olives, grapes, and oranges.
The host and hostess had such an engaging air, and the fare was so
tempting, so ample, and so abundantly furnished, that it would have
been unbecoming not to accept this rural bounty. The domestics of the
farm, the equals of their master, had already come to partake of the
repast; and the host reserved the place of honor for the strangers.

"I expected you," said he, quietly, to Lord Glenarvan.

"You did?" replied the latter, very much surprised.

"I always expect those who are coming," replied the Irishman.

Then, in a grave voice, while his household stood respectfully, he
invoked a Divine blessing. Lady Helena was much affected by his perfect
simplicity of manner, and a look from her husband told her that he
likewise was touched by it.

[Sidenote: THE OLD QUESTION.]

Ample justice was done to the repast. The conversation was general.
The colonist told his story. It was like that of most deserving and
voluntary emigrants. Many go far to seek their fortunes, and find
only sorrow and disaster; they accuse fate, forgetting to blame their
ignorance, laziness, and vices. The man who is sober and persevering,
economical and honest, is almost sure to succeed.