This had been the case with Mr. O'Moore. He had left Dundalk, where
he was poor, and, emigrating with his family to Australia, had landed
at Adelaide. At first he engaged in mining, but soon relinquished
this for the less hazardous pursuits of the farmer, in which he had
been successful beyond his highest anticipations. His agricultural
knowledge was a great aid to him. He economized, and bought new lands
with the profits of the first. His family flourished, as well as his
farm. The Irish peasant had become a landed proprietor, and, although
his establishment was only two years old, he owned at that moment five
hundred acres of well-cultivated land and five hundred head of cattle,
was his own master, and as independent as one can be even in the freest
country in the world.

His guests congratulated him sincerely when his story was finished. He
doubtless expected a similar confidence, but did not urge it. Glenarvan
had an immediate interest in speaking of the Duncan, of his own
presence at Cape Bernouilli, and of the search that they had pursued so
perseveringly. But, like a man who considers the main object in view,
he first questioned his host concerning the shipwreck of the Britannia.

The Irishman's answer was not cheering. He had never heard of the
ship. No vessel had for some time been lost on the coast; and, as the
shipwreck had occurred only two years before, he could affirm with
absolute certainty that the sailors had not been cast on that part of
the western shore.

"And now, my lord," added he, "may I be allowed to ask why you have
inquired of me concerning this shipwreck?"

Glenarvan then told the story of the document, the voyage of the
Duncan, and the attempts made to find Captain Grant. He confessed that
his dearest hopes had been destroyed by Mr. O'Moore's discouraging
information, and that he now despaired of ever finding the shipwrecked
seamen of the Britannia.

These words produced a gloomy impression upon his hearers. Robert and
Mary listened to them with tearful eyes. Paganel could not find a word
of consolation or hope. Captain Mangles suffered a grief that he could
not subdue. Despair was seizing upon the souls of the noble people whom
the Duncan had vainly brought to these distant shores, when all at once
a voice was heard:--

"My lord, praise and thank God! If Captain Grant is living, he is in
Australia."

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE QUARTERMASTER OF THE BRITANNIA.

The astonishment that these words produced cannot be described.
Glenarvan sprang to his feet, and, pushing back his chair, cried,--

"Who says that?"

"I!" replied one of O'Moore's workmen, seated at the end of the table.

"You, Ayrton?" said the colonist, no less astonished than Glenarvan.

"I," repeated Ayrton, in an excited but firm tone; "I, a Scotchman like
yourself, my lord, one of the shipwrecked sailors of the Britannia!"

[Sidenote: A FRESH FACE.]