Mary Grant, half fainting with emotion, and overcome with happiness,
sank into the arms of Lady Helena; while Captain Mangles, Robert, and
Paganel went towards the man whom their host had called Ayrton.

He was a somewhat rough-looking, broad-shouldered man, of about
forty-five, of more than medium height, and with piercing eyes sunk
deeply beneath his projecting brows. His strength must have been
unusual, even considering his stature, for he was all bone and sinew.
His countenance, full of intelligence and energy, although the features
were stern, prepossessed one in his favor. The sympathy that he
elicited was still more increased by the traces of recent hardships
imprinted upon his face. It was evident that he had suffered much,
although he seemed a man able to brave, endure, and conquer suffering.

The travelers felt all this at first sight. Ayrton's appearance had
interested them; and Glenarvan, acting as spokesman for all, pressed
him with inquiries. This strange meeting had evidently produced a
bewildering effect, and the first questions were, to some extent,
without order.

"You are one of the sailors of the Britannia?" asked Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord; Captain Grant's quartermaster," replied Ayrton.

"Saved with him from the shipwreck?"

"No, my lord. At that terrible moment I was washed overboard and cast
ashore."

"You are not one of the sailors, then, of whom the document makes
mention?"

"No; I did not know of the existence of such a document. The captain
must have thrown it overboard after I was gone."

"But the captain, the captain?"

"I suppose he was lost, drowned, with the rest of the crew. I thought I
was the sole survivor."

"But you said that Captain Grant was living!"

"No. I said, 'if the captain is living'----"

"'He is in Australia,' you added."

"He can be nowhere else."

"You do not know, then, where he is?"

"No, my lord. I repeat that I thought he was buried in the waves or
dashed upon the rocks. You say that perhaps he is still living."

"What do you know, then?" asked Glenarvan.

"Simply this, that if Captain Grant is living he is in Australia."

"Where did the shipwreck take place?" inquired the major.

This should have been the first question; but, in the excitement of the
moment, Glenarvan, anxious to know where Captain Grant was, had not
inquired where the Britannia was lost. From this point the conversation
assumed a more definite form, and soon the details of the complicated
story appeared clear and exact to the minds of Ayrton's hearers.

To the major's question Ayrton replied,--

"When I was washed from the forecastle, as I was hauling down the jib,
the Britannia was driving towards the coast of Australia, which was not
two cable-lengths distant. The shipwreck, therefore, took place at that
point."

"In latitude thirty-seven?" asked Captain Mangles.

"Thirty-seven," replied Ayrton.

"On the west coast?"

"No. On the east coast."

"And when?"

"On the night of June 27th, 1862."

"The same! the very same!" cried Glenarvan.