"The Duncan will join us, or we will join her, according to
circumstances. If Captain Grant is found during our journey, we will
return together to Melbourne. If, on the contrary, we continue our
search to the coast, the Duncan shall join us there. Who has any
objections to make to this plan? Have you, major?"

"No," replied MacNabb, "if it is practicable."

"So practicable," said Paganel, "that I propose that Lady Helena and
Miss Grant accompany us."

"Do you speak seriously, Paganel?" asked Glenarvan.

"Quite seriously, my lord. It is a journey of three hundred and fifty
miles. At the rate of twelve miles a day it would last scarcely a
month,--long enough to give time for repairing the Duncan."

"But the ferocious animals?" said Glenarvan, wishing to state all
possible objections.

[Sidenote: OBSTACLES EXPLAINED AWAY.]

"There are none in Australia."

"But the savages?"

"There are none in the course we shall take."

"Well, then, the convicts?"

"There are no convicts in the southern provinces of Australia, but only
in the eastern colonies."

"Mr. Paganel is perfectly right," said O'Moore; "they have all left the
southern provinces. Since I have lived on this farm, I have not heard
of one."

"And, for my part, I never met one," added Ayrton.

"You see, my friends," continued Paganel, "that there are few savages,
no wild beasts, and no convicts. There are not many countries of Europe
of which we could say as much. Well, is it agreed?"

"What do you think, Helena?" asked Glenarvan.

"What we all think," replied she, turning towards her companions.
"Forward!"

CHAPTER XXXII.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE JOURNEY.

It was not Glenarvan's habit to lose time in adopting and executing a
plan. As soon as Paganel's proposal was accepted, he at once resolved
that the preparations for the journey should be completed as soon as
possible.

And what was to be the result of this search? The existence of
Harry Grant seemed to have become undeniable, which increased the
probabilities of success. No one expected to find the captain exactly
on the line of the thirty-seventh parallel; but perhaps they would come
upon traces of him, and, at all events, their course would bring them
straight to the scene of the shipwreck, which was the principal point.

Moreover, if Ayrton would consent to join the travelers, to guide them
through the forests, and to the eastern coast, there was another chance
of success. Glenarvan felt the importance of this arrangement, and was
therefore particularly desirous of obtaining the services of Captain
Grant's companion. He inquired of his host whether he was willing for
him to propose to Ayrton to accompany them. Mr. O'Moore consented,
though not without regret at losing so good an assistant.

"Well, Ayrton, will you aid us in our search for the sailors of the
Britannia?"

The quartermaster did not answer immediately; he seemed to hesitate for
a few moments, but finally, after reflecting, said: