The vehicle was a cart twenty feet long and covered with an awning,
the whole resting upon four wheels, without spokes, felloes, or tires.
The front wheels were a long way from the hind ones, and were joined
together by a rude contrivance that made it impossible to turn short.
To the body of the cart was attached a pole thirty-five feet long, to
which three pairs of oxen were coupled. The animals, thus arranged,
drew by means of a yoke across their necks, to which the bow was
fastened with an iron pin. It required great skill to manage this long,
narrow, tottering vehicle, and guide the oxen by means of the whip.
But Ayrton had served his apprenticeship at O'Moore's farm, and his
employer guaranteed his dexterity. Upon him, therefore, devolved the
duty of driving.

The cart, being without springs, was not very easy; but our travelers
were obliged to conform to circumstances as much as they could. As no
change was possible in its rude construction, Captain Mangles arranged
the interior in the most comfortable manner. He divided it into two
compartments by a wooden partition. The rear one was designed for
the provisions, the baggage, and Mr. Olbinett's portable kitchen,
while the forward one was reserved exclusively for the ladies. The
carpenter converted it into a convenient chamber, covered it with a
thick carpet, and furnished it with a dressing-table and two berths for
Lady Helena and Mary Grant. Thick leathern curtains secured privacy,
when necessary, and were a protection against the chilliness of the
night. In rainy weather the men could find shelter under the awning;
but a tent was to serve this purpose at the time of encampment. Captain
Mangles succeeded in crowding into this narrow space all that two
ladies could need, and Lady Helena and Mary Grant did not greatly miss
the comfortable cabins of the Duncan.

[Sidenote: A RETURN VISIT.]

As for the men, seven strong horses were apportioned to Lord
Glenarvan, Paganel, Robert Grant, Major MacNabb, Captain Mangles,
and the two sailors, Wilson and Mulready, who accompanied this new
expeditionary party. The horses and oxen grazed near at hand, and could
be easily collected at the moment of departure.

Having made his arrangements, and given his orders to the carpenter,
Captain Mangles returned on board with the colonist's family, who
wished to pay Lord Glenarvan a visit. Ayrton thought proper to join
them, and about four o'clock the captain crossed the gangway of the
Duncan.