Of course, Glenarvan invited his visitors to dinner, and they willingly
accepted his return hospitality. Mr. O'Moore was amazed. The furniture
of the cabins, the tapestry, the upholstery, and the fancy-work of
maple and ebony excited his admiration. Ayrton, on the contrary, gave
only a secondary attention to these costly luxuries. He first examined
the yacht from a sailor's point of view. He explored the hold; he
went down into the engine-room; he looked at the engine, inquired
its effective power and consumption; he visited the coal-house, the
pantry, and the powder-magazine, and took particular interest in the
gun-room and the mounted cannon in the forecastle. Glenarvan now had to
deal with a man who was a critical judge, as he could see by Ayrton's
keen inquiries. At last the quartermaster finished his exploration by
inspecting the masts and rigging; and, after a few moments of general
review, said:

"You have a fine vessel, my lord."

"A good one, too," replied Glenarvan.

"How many tons' burden is she?"

"Two hundred and ten."

"Shall I be greatly mistaken," added Ayrton, "if I say that the Duncan
can easily make fifteen knots an hour at full speed?"

"Say seventeen," interposed the captain, "and you will be nearer
right."

"Seventeen!" cried the quartermaster: "why, then, no man-of-war, not
even the best, could overtake her."

"Not one," said the captain. "The Duncan is a real racing yacht, and is
not to be beaten in any way."

"Not even in sailing?" asked Ayrton.

"Not even in sailing."

"Well, my lord, and you, captain, accept the compliments of a sailor
who knows what a vessel is worth."

"Thanks, Ayrton," replied Glenarvan; "and now remain on board, and it
will be your own fault if the ship is not all you can desire."

"I will think of it, my lord," said the quartermaster, modestly.

Mr. Olbinett now approached, and informed Lord Glenarvan that dinner
was ready; and they all adjourned to the saloon.

"That Ayrton is an intelligent man," said Paganel to the major.

"Too intelligent!" growled MacNabb, who, without any apparent reason,
disliked the looks and manners of the quartermaster.

During dinner, Ayrton gave some interesting information concerning
Australia, with which he was perfectly familiar. He inquired the number
of sailors that Glenarvan intended to take with him in his expedition.
When he learned that only two, Wilson and Mulready, were to accompany
them, he seemed astonished. He advised Glenarvan to form his party of
the best seamen of the Duncan. He even insisted upon this point, which
must have removed all suspicion from the mind of the major.

"But," said Glenarvan, "is there any danger in our journey across
Australia?"

"None," replied Ayrton.

[Sidenote: A CHANGE OF RESIDENCE.]

"Well, then, let us leave on board as many as possible. There must be
men to navigate the Duncan and take charge of her. It is especially
important that she should arrive promptly at the place of meeting,
which we will appoint hereafter. Let us not, therefore, lessen the
crew."