Ayrton seemed to appreciate this reason, and no longer insisted.

At evening the party separated. Ayrton and O'Moore's family returned to
their home. The horses and cart were to be ready the next day, and the
travelers were to start at eight o'clock in the morning.

Lady Helena and Mary Grant now made their last preparations, which were
short and less minute than those of Jacques Paganel. The geographer
passed half the night in unscrewing, cleaning, and screwing on again
the lenses of his telescope. He was still asleep the next morning, when
the major awoke him early with a loud summons.

The baggage had already been conveyed to the farm through the care of
Captain Mangles. A boat was waiting for the travelers, and they were
not long in embarking. The young captain gave his last orders to Tom
Austin, and instructed him above all to await the commands of Lord
Glenarvan at Melbourne, and execute them scrupulously whatever they
might be. The trusty sailor replied that they might rely on him. In the
name of the crew he offered to his lordship their best wishes for the
success of the expedition. The boat put off, and a thunder of applause
rent the air. In a few moments the party reached the shore, and in no
great length of time arrived at O'Moore's farm.

Everything was ready. Lady Helena was delighted with her quarters. The
immense cart, with its rude wheels and massive timbers, especially
pleased her. The six oxen yoked in pairs seemed to indicate primeval
simplicity, and were a novel sight. Ayrton, whip in hand, awaited the
orders of his new chief.

"I declare!" said Paganel, "this is an admirable vehicle, worth all the
mail-coaches in the world. I know of no better way of traversing the
earth than in this style, like mountebanks. A house that moves when
you please and stops wherever you please is all you can desire."

"Monsieur Paganel," replied Lady Helena, "I hope to have the pleasure
of receiving you in my parlor."

"Madam," replied the geographer, "you do me great honor! Have you
chosen a day?"

"I shall be at home every day for my friends," replied Lady Helena,
smiling, "and you are----"

"The most devoted of all," added Paganel, gallantly.

This exchange of compliments was interrupted by the arrival of seven
horses, all harnessed, driven by one of O'Moore's sons. Lord Glenarvan
paid for these new acquisitions, and added many thanks, which the
honest colonist seemed to value as highly as the gold and notes which
he received.