The signal for departure was now given. Lady Helena and Miss Grant
seated themselves in their compartment, Ayrton and Olbinett took their
places respectively in front and in the rear part of the cart, while
Glenarvan, the major, Paganel, Robert, Captain Mangles, and the two
sailors, all armed with carbines and revolvers, mounted their horses. A
"God bless you" was Mr. O'Moore's parting salute, which was echoed in
chorus by his family. Ayrton uttered a peculiar cry, and started his
long team. The cart moved, the timbers cracked, the axles creaked, and
the farm of the honest hospitable Irishman soon disappeared from view
at the turn of the road.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

AN ACCIDENT.

Our travelers made tolerably good progress by their new mode of
conveyance. The heat was great, but endurable, and the road was
quite easy for the horses. They were still in the province of South
Australia, and in this part at least the scenery was not of the
most interesting character. A succession of small hills, with very
dusty tracks, small shrubs, and scant herbage, had to be traversed
for several miles; and when these had been passed they reached the
"Mosquito Plains," whose very name describes them, and serves to tell
of the tortures that our friends had to encounter. Both the bipeds and
the quadrupeds suffered terribly from the infliction of these flying
pests, whom to avoid was impossible; but there was some consolation for
the former in the spirits of hartshorn, carried in the medicine-chest,
which alleviated the pain caused by the sting of those whom Paganel was
continually consigning to a place and person whom they would not visit.

But shortly a more pleasant neighborhood was reached. Hedges of
acacias, then a newly cut and better made roadway, then European
imported trees--oaks, olives, and lemons,--then a well-kept fence,--all
these signs told of their approach to Red-gum Station, the home and
settlement of an emigrant engaged in the cattle-breeding which is the
source of so much Australian wealth. It was in itself an establishment
of small importance; but to its owners it was a home, and to its
visitors, on this occasion, it was a hotel, as the "station" generally
is to the traveler.

Glenarvan's party invariably found beneath the roof of these solitary
settlers a well-spread and hospitable table; and in the Australian
farmer they always met an obliging host.

After a night spent at this resting-place the party advanced through a
grove, and at evening encamped on the shores of a brackish and muddy
lake. Mr. Olbinett prepared supper with his usual promptness, and the
travelers--some in the cart and others under the tent--were not long
in falling asleep, in spite of the dismal howlings of the dingos,--the
jackals of Australia.