The quartermaster was not mistaken. The thick cloud approached, from
the midst of which issued a chorus of bleatings, neighings, and
bellowings, while the human voice mingled in cries and whistles with
this pastoral symphony. A man emerged from the noisy multitude; it was
the commander-in-chief of this four-footed army. Glenarvan advanced to
meet him, and friendly relations were established without ceremony.
The leader, or, to give him his real title, the "stock-keeper," was
proprietor of a part of the herd. His name was Sam Machell, and he
was on his way from the eastern provinces to Portland Bay. His cattle
comprised one thousand oxen, eleven thousand sheep, and seventy-five
horses. All these animals, bought when lean on the plains of the
Blue Mountains, were to be fattened in the healthy pastures of South
Australia, where they would be sold for a large price.

Sam Machell briefly told his story, while the drove continued its
course through the clumps of mimosas. Lady Helena, Mary Grant, and
the horsemen dismounted, and, seated in the shade of a huge gum-tree,
listened to the stock-keeper's narrative.

He had set out seven months before, and had made about ten miles a day,
at which rate his journey would last three months longer. To aid him
in this laborious task, he had with him twenty dogs and thirty men.
Five of the men were blacks, who are very skillful in recovering stray
animals. Six carts followed the drove; and the drivers, provided with
stock-whips, the handles of which were eighteen inches and the lashes
nine feet in length, moved among the ranks and maintained order, while
the canine light dragoons hovered about on the wings.

The travelers were amazed at the discipline of this novel army. The
different classes advanced separately, for wild oxen and sheep do
not associate well; the first will never graze where the second have
passed. Hence it was necessary to place the oxen at the head; and these
accordingly, divided into two battalions, took the lead. Five regiments
of sheep, commanded by five drivers, followed, and the platoon of
horses formed the rear-guard.

The stock-keeper observed to his hearers that the leaders of the army
were neither dogs nor men, but oxen, whose superiority was recognized
by their mates. They advanced in the front rank with perfect gravity,
choosing the best course by instinct, and thoroughly convinced of their
right to be treated with consideration.

[Sidenote: AN UNFORESEEN HINDRANCE.]

Thus the discipline was maintained, for the drove obeyed them without
resistance. If it pleased them to stop, the others were obliged to
yield, and it was useless to attempt to resume the line of march if the
leaders did not give the signal.