Such was Sam Machell's account, during which a great part of the
herd had advanced in good order. It was now time for him to join his
army, and choose the best pastures. He therefore took leave of Lord
Glenarvan, mounted a fine native horse that one of his men was holding
for him, and a few moments after had disappeared in a cloud of dust,
while the cart, resuming its interrupted journey, stopped at nightfall
at the foot of Mount Talbot.

The next day they reached the shores of the Wimerra, which is half a
mile wide, and flows in a limpid stream between tall rows of gum-trees
and acacias. Magnificent myrtles raised aloft their long, drooping
branches, adorned with crimson flowers, while thousands of goldfinches,
chaffinches, and golden-winged pigeons, not to speak of chattering
parrots, fluttered about in the foliage. Below, on the surface of the
stream, sported a pair of black swans, shy and unapproachable.

Meantime the cart had stopped on a carpet of turf whose fringes hung
over the swiftly flowing waters. There was neither raft nor bridge, but
they must cross at all hazard. Ayrton busied himself in searching for
a practicable ford. A quarter of a mile up-stream, the river seemed to
him less deep, and from this point he resolved to reach the other bank.
Various soundings gave a depth of only three feet. The cart could,
therefore, pass over this shallow without running much risk.

"Is there no other way of crossing the river?" asked Glenarvan of the
quartermaster.

"No, my lord," replied Ayrton; "but this passage does not seem to me
dangerous. We can extricate ourselves from any difficulty."

"Shall Lady Helena and Miss Grant leave the cart?"

"Not at all. My oxen are sure-footed, and I will engage to keep them in
the right track."

"Well, Ayrton," said Glenarvan, "I trust to you."

The horsemen surrounded the heavy vehicle, and the party boldly entered
the river. Usually, when these fordings are attempted, the carts are
encircled by a ring of empty barrels, which support them on the water.
But here this buoyant girdle was wanting, and it was, therefore,
necessary to confide to the sagacity of the oxen, guided by the
cautious Ayrton. The major and the two sailors dashed through the rapid
current some distance ahead, while Glenarvan and Captain Mangles, one
on each side of the cart, stood ready to assist the ladies, and Paganel
and Robert brought up the rear.

Everything went well till they reached the middle of the river, but
here the depth increased, and the water rose above the felloes. The
oxen, if thrown out of their course, might lose their footing and
overturn the unsteady vehicle. Ayrton exerted himself to the utmost. He
leaped into the water, and, seizing the oxen by the horns, succeeded in
keeping them in the right track.