At this moment an accident, impossible to foresee, took place. A crack
was heard; the cart inclined at an alarming angle; the water reached
the feet of the ladies, and the whole vehicle threatened to give way.
It was an anxious moment.

Fortunately a vigorous blow upon the yoke brought the cart nearer the
shore. The river grew shallower, and soon men and beasts were in safety
on the opposite bank. Only the front wheels of the cart were damaged,
and Glenarvan's horse had lost the shoes of his fore-feet.

This mishap required immediate repair. The travelers gazed at each
other in some degree of perplexity, when Ayrton proposed to go to Black
Point Station, twenty miles to the north, and bring a farrier.

[Sidenote: FOOD, PHYSICAL AND MENTAL.]

"Very well, Ayrton," said Glenarvan. "How much time do you need to make
the journey and return to the encampment?"

"Fifteen hours," replied Ayrton.

"Go, then; and, while waiting for your return, we will encamp on the
banks of the Wimerra."

A few moments after, the quartermaster, mounted on Wilson's horse,
disappeared behind the thick curtain of mimosas.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

AUSTRALIAN EXPLORERS.

After the departure of Ayrton, and during this compulsory halt,
promenades and conversations became the order of the day. There was
an abundance of agreeable surroundings to talk about, and nature
seemed dressed in one of her most attractive garbs. Birds, novel and
varied in their plumage, with flowers such as they had never before
gazed on, were the constant theme of the travelers' remark; and when,
in addition, they had in Mr. Olbinett one who knew how to spread
before them and make the best of all the culinary novelties that were
within reach, a very substantial foundation was possible for the
"feast of reason and the flow of soul" which followed, and for which,
as usual, they were to no small extent indebted to their learned
historico-geographical professor, whose stock of information was as
varied as it was pleasant.

After dinner the traveling party had, as if in anticipation, seated
themselves at the foot of a magnificent banksia; the young moon was
rising high into the heavens, lengthening the twilight, and prolonging
it into the evening hour; whilst the smoke of the major's cigar was
seen curling upwards, losing itself in the foliage of the tree.

"Monsieur Paganel," said Lady Helena, "you have never given us the
history that you promised when you supplied us with that long list of
names."

The gentleman addressed did not require any lengthened entreaties on
this subject, but, with an attentive auditory, and in the grandest
of all lecture-rooms, he rehearsed to them the two great dramas of
Australian travel, which have made the names of Burke and Stuart
immortal in the history of that continent.