At length, however, there were various signs that they were approaching
the sea; by-and-by they reached the bank of a river which flows into
the Gulf of Carpentaria; and finally Burke and Wills, after terrible
hardships, arrived at the point where the sea-water flowed up to and
inundated the marshes, though the sea-shore itself they did not reach.
With naught but barrenness in sight on either hand, their great desire
was to get back and rejoin their companions; but peril after peril
awaited them, many of which their note-book has preserved an account
of, but many more will be forever unrecorded. The three survivors
(for one of the party had succumbed to the hardships) now strained
every effort to reach the encampment, where they hoped to find their
companions and a store of provisions. On the 21st of April they
gained the goal, but the prize was missing; only seven hours before,
after five months of waiting in vain, their companions had taken
their departure. Of course nothing remained but to follow them with
their feeble strength and scanty means of subsistence; but calamities
still dogged their footsteps, and at last the leader, Burke, lay down
exhausted, saying to his companion, King, "I have not many hours to
live; here are my watch and my notes; when I am dead, place a pistol
in my right hand, and leave me without burial." His forebodings were
realized, and the next morning he died. King, in despair, went in
search of some Australian tribe, for now Wills had begun to sink,
and he shortly afterwards died also. At length the sole survivor was
rescued by an expedition sent out in search of Burke; and thus the sad
tale was told of this Australian tragedy.

The narrative concerning Stuart was a less melancholy one, though the
trials endured on his expedition were likewise great. Aided by the
parliament of South Australia, he likewise proceeded northward,
in the year 1862, about seven degrees to the west of the line taken
by Burke. He found his route to be a more accessible and easy one
than the other, and was rewarded for his toil when, on the 24th of
July, he beheld the waters of the Indian Ocean, and proudly unfurled
the Australian flag from the topmost branch of the highest tree he
could find. His return to the inhabited regions was successfully
accomplished, and his entry into Adelaide, on the 17th of December, was
an ovation indeed. But his health was shattered, and, after receiving
the gold medal of the Royal Geographical Society, and returning to his
native Scotland, he died on the 5th of June, 1866.

The histories of these Australian travels were lengthy, as told by
Paganel. When he had finished, hope and despair seemed to fight for the
mastery in the breasts of his listeners; but they did not fight long,
for peaceful slumbers soon enwrapped the company, except those whose
turn it was to watch over their fellow-travelers.

CHAPTER XXXV.

CRIME OR CALAMITY?

[Sidenote: THE MISCHIEF REPAIRED.]