It was not without a certain feeling of apprehension that the major
had seen Ayrton leave the Wimerra to procure a farrier at Black Point
Station. However, he did not breathe a word of his personal suspicions,
but contented himself with exploring the surroundings of the river,
whose tranquillity was undisturbed. As for Glenarvan, his only fear was
to see Ayrton return alone. In the absence of skilled labor, the cart
could not resume its journey, which would be interrupted for several
days perhaps; and his longings for success and eagerness to attain his
end admitted of no delay.

Fortunately, Ayrton had lost neither his time nor his trouble. The
next morning he reappeared at break of day. A man accompanied him, by
profession a farrier. He was a tall, stout fellow, but of a low and
brutish appearance, which did not prepossess one in his favor. However,
this was of little importance, if he knew his business. At all events
his breath was not wasted in idle words.

"Is he an efficient workman?" inquired Captain Mangles of the
quartermaster.

"I know no more than you, captain," replied Ayrton. "We shall see."

The farrier began his work. He was a man who understood his trade, as
one could see by the way in which he repaired the wheels of the cart.
He labored skillfully and with uncommon energy.

During the operation, the major noticed that the farrier's wrists were
considerably eroded, and that they were each encircled by a blackish
ring of extravasated blood. These were the marks of recent wounds,
which the sleeves of a miserable woolen shirt but partially concealed.
MacNabb questioned the man about these erosions, which must have been
very painful. He, however, made no reply, but stolidly kept on at his
work.

Two hours after, the injuries of the cart were repaired. As for
Glenarvan's horse, he was quickly shod. The farrier had taken care to
bring shoes all prepared. There was a peculiarity about them, however,
which did not escape the major. It was a trefoil rudely carved on the
outer rim. He pointed it out to Ayrton.

"It is the Black Point mark," replied the quartermaster, "which enables
them to follow the tracks of the horses that stray from the station,
and not confound them with others."

The farrier, having done all that was required of him, now claimed his
wages, and departed without having spoken four words.

Half an hour later, the travelers were on the move. Beyond the curtain
of mimosas extended a broad, uncovered space, which justly deserved its
name of "open plain." Fragments of quartz and ferruginous rocks lay
among the bushes, tall grass, and hedgerows that protected numerous
flocks. Several miles farther on, the wheels of the cart sank deeply
in the marshy lowlands, through which ran winding creeks, half hidden
beneath a canopy of gigantic rushes. The journey, notwithstanding, was
neither difficult nor tedious.