Lady Helena invited the horsemen to call upon her in turn, for her
parlor was very small. Each was thus relieved from the fatigue of
horseback riding, and enjoyed the society of this amiable lady,
who, assisted by Miss Mary, performed with perfect grace the honors
of her movable mansion. Captain Mangles was not forgotten in these
invitations, and his rather sober conversation was not at all
displeasing.

At eleven o'clock they arrived at Carlsbrook, quite an important
municipality. Ayrton thought it best to pass by the city without
entering. Glenarvan was of the same opinion; but Paganel, always
eager for something new, desired to visit the place. Accordingly,
the geographer, taking Robert with him as usual, started on his
explorations, while the cart slowly continued its journey. Their
inspection of the town was very rapid, and shortly afterwards they had
joined their companions.

While they were passing through this region, the travelers requested
Paganel to give them some account of its progress, and the geographer,
in compliance with their wishes, had just begun a lecture upon the
civilization of the country, when he was interrupted by a shrill
whistle. The party were not a mile from the railroad. A locomotive,
coming from the south, and going slowly, had stopped just where
the road they were following crossed the iron track. At this point
the railway passes over the Lutton on an iron bridge, and thither
Ayrton directed his cart, preceded by the horsemen. The travelers
were attracted, moreover, by a lively feeling of curiosity, for
a considerable crowd was already rushing towards the bridge. The
inhabitants of the neighboring stations, leaving their houses, and the
shepherds their flocks, lined the sides of the track. Frequent cries
were heard. Some serious event must have taken place to cause such
excitement,--a great accident, perhaps.

Glenarvan, followed by his companions, urged on his horse, and in a few
moments arrived at Camden Bridge. Here the cause of this agitation was
at once manifest. A terrible accident had occurred, not a collision,
but a running off the track and a fall into the river, which was filled
with the fragments of cars and locomotives. Either the bridge had
given way, or the engine had run off the track; for five coaches out
of six had been precipitated into the bed of the Lutton. The last car,
miraculously preserved by the breaking of its coupling, stood on the
very verge of the abyss. Below was to be seen nothing but a terrible
heap of blackened and bent axle-trees, broken cars, twisted rails, and
charred timbers. The boiler, which had burst at the shock, had thrown
its iron plates to an enormous distance. From this mass of unsightly
objects issued flames and spiral wreaths of steam, mingled with black
smoke. Large spots of blood, scattered limbs, and trunks of burnt
bodies appeared here and there; and no one dared to estimate the number
of victims buried beneath the ruins.