Glenarvan, Paganel, the major, and Captain Mangles mingled with the
crowd, and listened to the conjectures that passed from one to another.
Each sought to explain the catastrophe, while laboring to save what was
left.

"The bridge has broken," said one.

[Sidenote: CAUSES AND EFFECTS.]

"Broken?" replied others. "That cannot be, for it is still uninjured.
They forgot to close it for the passage of the train, that is all."

It was a draw-bridge, which had been constructed for the convenience of
the shipping. Had the man on guard, through unpardonable negligence,
forgotten to close it, and thus precipitated the train, at full speed,
into the bed of the Lutton? This supposition seemed plausible, for one
half of the bridge lay beneath the fragments of the cars, while the
other still hung intact in its chains. Doubt was no longer possible;
surely carelessness must have caused the calamity.

The accident had happened to the night express, which left Melbourne
at forty-five minutes past eleven. It must have been a quarter-past
three in the morning when the train reached Camden Bridge, where this
terrible destruction of life and property took place. The travelers
and employés of the last car at once busied themselves in seeking
assistance; but the telegraph-wires, whose poles lay on the ground,
were no longer available. It took the authorities of Castlemaine three
hours to reach the scene of the disaster; and it was, therefore, six
o'clock in the morning before a corps of workers was organized under
the direction of the surveyor-general of the district, and a detachment
of policemen, commanded by an officer. The squatters had come to their
aid, and exerted themselves to extinguish the fire, which consumed the
heap of ruins with unconquerable fierceness. Several unrecognizable
bodies lay on the edge of the embankment, but it was impossible
to rescue a living being from this furnace. The fire had rapidly
accomplished the work of destruction. Of the travelers in the train,
whose number was not known, only ten survived, those in the last car.
The railroad company had just sent an extra locomotive to convey them
to Castlemaine.

Meantime, Lord Glenarvan, having made the acquaintance of the
surveyor-general, was conversing with him and the police-officer. The
latter was a tall, thin man, of imperturbable coolness, who, if he
had any feeling, betrayed no sign of it on his impassible features.
He was like a mathematician engaged upon a problem; he was seeking to
elucidate the mystery of the disaster. To Glenarvan's first words,
"This is a great calamity!" he replied, calmly, "It is more than that."

"More than that!" cried Glenarvan; "and what can be more than that?"

"It is a crime!" replied the officer, coolly.

Glenarvan turned to Mr. Mitchell, the surveyor-general, with a
questioning look.