"That is correct," said the latter; "our examination has convinced us
that the catastrophe is the result of a crime. The last baggage-wagon
was robbed. The surviving travelers were attacked by a party of five or
six malefactors. The bridge was opened intentionally; and, taking into
account this fact with the disappearance of the guard, I cannot but
come to the conclusion that the miserable man was the accomplice of the
criminals."

The police-officer, at these words, slowly shook his head.

"You are not of my opinion?" inquired Mr. Mitchell.

"Not as regards the complicity of the guard."

"At any rate, this assumed complicity," continued the surveyor-general,
"enables us to attribute the crime to the natives who wander about the
country. Without the guard's assistance these natives could not have
opened the draw-bridge, for they do not understand its working."

"Exactly," replied the officer.

"Now, it is known," added Mr. Mitchell, "from the testimony of a
boatman, whose boat passed Camden Bridge at forty minutes past ten in
the evening, that the bridge was closed according to regulation, after
his passage."

"Quite right."

"Therefore the complicity of the guard seems to me to be proved
incontestably."

The officer again made a gesture of dissent.

"Then you do not attribute the crime to the natives?" inquired
Glenarvan.

"I do not."

"To whom, then?"

At this moment a loud uproar was heard half a mile up the river. A
crowd had formed, which rapidly increased, and was now approaching the
station. In the midst of the multitude two men were bearing a corpse.
It was that of the guard, already cold. A poniard-thrust had pierced
him to the heart. The assassins had dragged the body some distance from
Camden Bridge, doubtless intending by this means to mislead the police
in their first investigations. This discovery clearly justified the
doubts of the officer. The natives had no hand in the crime.

"Those who struck the blow," said he, "are persons already familiar
with the use of these little instruments."

As he spoke he displayed a pair of "darbies," a kind of manacles
consisting of a double ring of iron, furnished with a padlock.

"Before long," added he, "I shall have the pleasure of presenting them
with these bracelets as a new year's gift."

"Then you suspect----?"

"People who have 'traveled free on Her Majesty's vessels.'"

"What! convicts?" cried Paganel, who recognized the phrase employed in
the Australian colonies.

"I thought," observed Glenarvan, "that those who have been transported
had no right to stay in the province of Victoria."

"Ah, well," replied the officer, "if they have not the right, they take
it! Sometimes they escape; and, if I am not greatly mistaken, these
fellows have come direct from Perth. Well, they shall return again, you
may be sure."

[Sidenote: A RAILROAD SLEEPER.]