Mr. Mitchell nodded approvingly at the words of the officer. At this
moment the cart arrived at the railroad crossing. Glenarvan, wishing
to spare the ladies the spectacle at Camden Bridge, took leave of the
surveyor-general, and made a sign to his companions to follow him.

"There is no occasion," said he, "for us to interrupt our journey."

On reaching the cart, Glenarvan simply told Lady Helena that a railroad
accident had taken place, without mentioning the part that the convicts
had played in the catastrophe. He reserved this matter that he might
question Ayrton in private. The little party then crossed the track,
not far above the bridge, and resumed their route towards the east.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

FRESH FACES.

They had not proceeded far before they reached a native cemetery,
pleasantly situated and with abundance of shady trees. Here for a
time they halted, and, whilst Robert and Paganel were exploring, Lord
and Lady Glenarvan almost stumbled over a queer object. It was human,
indigenous, and sleeping; but at first this was all that they could
decide, until, as the eyes opened and the sleeper roused to active
life, they saw before them a boy of eight years, with a notice pinned
to the back of his jacket which read as follows: "TOLINÉ*, to be
conducted to Echuca, care of Jeff Smith, Railway Porter. Prepaid."

Here, it would seem, was another waif that Providence had cast in their
path. They questioned him, and his answers were pertinent and clear. He
had been educated in the Wesleyan Methodist day-school at Melbourne,
and was now going for a time to visit his parents, who were living
with the rest of their tribe in Lachlan. He had been in the train to
which the accident had happened, and had, with childlike confidence,
troubled less about his fate than did those of older years. Going to a
little distance, and laying himself on the grass, he had soon fallen
into the slumber from which our travelers had aroused him.

Paganel and the others had now gathered round, and Toliné had to answer
many a question. He came out of his examination very creditably; the
reverence with which he spoke of the Creator and of the Bible produced
a very favorable impression on the Scottish heads of the expedition,
whilst the fact that he had taken "the first prize in geography" was
sufficient introduction to Monsieur Paganel, who forthwith tested his
knowledge, greatly to his own satisfaction, and considerably to the
credit of his young pupil. The curiosity of his discoverers having been
fully satisfied, Toliné was made welcome, and partook with the others
of the general repast. Many were the plans and purposes concerning
him, and much wonder was expressed as to how they could speed him on
his way; but in the morning it was discovered that he had solved the
problem for himself, and a bouquet of fresh leaves and flowers, laid by
the side of Lady Helena's seat, was the only memento that Toliné had
left.

[Sidenote: A GOLDEN CITY.]