Only one change had been made in the line of march since leaving
Camden Bridge. The criminal disaster on the railway, when made known
to Ayrton, had induced him to take precautions hitherto needless.
The horsemen were not to lose sight of the cart. During the hours of
encampment one of them was always on guard. Morning and evening the
priming of the fire-arms was renewed. It was certain that a band of
malefactors were scouring the country; and, although nothing gave cause
for immediate suspicion, still it was necessary to be ready for any
emergency.

In truth they had reason to act thus. An imprudence, or negligence
even, might cost them dear. Glenarvan, moreover, was not alone in
giving heed to this state of affairs. In the isolated towns and
stations the inhabitants and squatters took precautions against any
attack or surprise. The houses were closed at nightfall. The dogs were
let loose within the palisades, and barked at the slightest alarm.
There was not a shepherd, collecting his numerous flocks on horseback
for the evening return, who did not carry a carbine suspended from the
pommel of his saddle. The news of the crime committed at Camden Bridge
was the reason for this excessive caution, and many a colonist who had
formerly slept with open doors and windows now carefully locked his
house at twilight.

After awhile, the cart entered a grove of giant trees, the finest
they had hitherto seen. There was a cry of admiration at sight of the
eucalyptuses, two hundred feet high, whose spongy bark was five inches
in thickness. The trunks measured twenty feet in circumference, and
were furrowed by streams of odorous sap. Not a branch, not a twig, not
a wanton shoot, not even a knot, disfigured their perfect symmetry.
They could not have issued smoother from the hand of the turner. They
were like so many columns exactly mated, and could be counted by
hundreds, spreading at a vast height into capitals of finely-shaped
branches adorned with vertical leaves, from which hung solitary
flowers, whose calices were like inverted urns.

Under this evergreen canopy the air circulated freely. A continual
ventilation absorbed the moisture of the earth, and horses, herds of
cattle, and carts could easily pass between these trees, which were
widely separated and arranged in straight rows. It was neither a
wood with thickets crowded and obstructed by brambles, nor a virgin
forest barricaded with fallen trunks and entangled with inextricable
parasites, where only axe and fire can clear a way for the pioneers.
A carpet of herbage below, and a sheet of verdure above; long vistas
of noble pillars; little shade or coolness; a peculiar light, like
the rays that sift through a delicate tissue; shadows sharply defined
upon the ground: all this constituted a strange sight. The forests of
Oceanica are entirely different from those of the New World, and the
eucalyptus--the "tara" of the aborigines--is the most perfect tree of
the Australian flora.