The shade is not dense, nor the darkness profound, beneath these domes
of verdure, owing to a strange peculiarity in the arrangement of the
leaves of the eucalyptus. Not one presents its face to the sun, but
only its sharp edge. The eye sees nothing but profiles in this singular
foliage. Thus the rays of the sun glide to the earth as if they had
passed between the slats of a window-blind.

Every one observed this and seemed surprised. Why this particular
arrangement? This question was naturally addressed to Paganel, who
replied like a man who is never at fault.

"What astonishes me," said he, "is not the freak of nature, for she
knows what she does; but botanists do not always know what they say.
Nature was not mistaken in giving to these trees this singular foliage;
but men are wrong in calling them eucalyptuses."

"What does the word mean?" asked Mary Grant.

"It comes from the Greek words [Greek: eu kalyptô], signifying _I cover
well_. But you all see that the eucalyptus covers badly."

[Sidenote: A SILENT MARCH.]

"Just so, my dear Paganel," replied Glenarvan; "and now tell us why the
leaves grow thus."

"In this country, where the air is dry," said Paganel, "where rains
are rare and the soil is parched, the trees need neither wind nor
sun. Hence these narrow leaves seek to defend themselves against the
elements and preserve themselves from too great an evaporation. They
therefore present their edges, and not their faces, to the action of
the solar rays. There is nothing more intelligent than a leaf."

"Nor more selfish," remarked the major. "They thought only of
themselves, and not at all of travelers."

The entire party was inclined to be of MacNabb's opinion, except
Paganel, who, as he wiped his face, congratulated himself upon
traveling beneath these shadowless trees. However, this arrangement of
foliage was to be regretted; for the journey through these forests is
frequently very long and painful, since nothing protects the traveler
from the heat of the sun.

All day long our travelers pursued their way under these interminable
arches. They met neither quadruped nor human being. A few cockatoos
inhabited the tops of the trees; but at that height they could scarcely
be distinguished, and their chattering was an almost inaudible murmur.
Sometimes a flock of parrots would shoot across a distant vista,
illumining it with a rapid flash of variegated light. But generally a
deep silence reigned in this vast temple of verdure, and the measured
tread of the horses, a few words exchanged now and then in desultory
conversation, the creaking of the cart-wheels, and from time to time a
cry from Ayrton as he urged on his sluggish team, were the only sounds
that disturbed this vast solitude.