At evening they encamped at the foot of some trees that bore the marks
of a recent fire. They formed tall chimneys, as it were, for the flames
had hollowed them out internally throughout their entire length.
Having only this shell of bark remaining, they no longer suffered
severely from this treatment. However, this lamentable habit of the
squatters and natives will finally destroy these magnificent trees, and
they will disappear like the cedars of Lebanon, so many centuries old,
consumed by the careless fires of wandering encampments.

Olbinett, according to Paganel's advice, kindled a fire in one of these
tubular trunks. He obtained a draught at once, and the smoke soon
disappeared in the dark mass of foliage. The necessary precautions were
taken for the night, and Ayrton, Mulready, Wilson, and Captain Mangles
watched by turns till sunrise.

During all the next day the interminable forest presented its long,
monotonous avenues, till it seemed as if it would never end. Towards
evening, however, the rows of trees became thinner; and a few miles
farther on, upon a small plain, appeared a collection of regularly
built houses.

"Seymour!" cried Paganel. "This is the last place we shall meet with
before leaving the province of Victoria."

"Is it an important town?" inquired Lady Helena.

"Madam," replied he, "it is a simple parish that would like to become a
municipality."

"Shall we find a comfortable hotel?" asked Glenarvan.

"I hope so," answered the geographer.

"Well, then, let us go into the town; for the ladies will not be sorry,
I imagine, to rest here one night."

"My dear Edward," replied Lady Helena, "Mary and I accept; but on the
condition that it shall cause no trouble or delay."

"None at all," said Lord Glenarvan. "Moreover, our oxen are fatigued.
To-morrow we will start at break of day."

[Sidenote: A TALK AFTER SUPPER.]

It was now nine o'clock. The moon was approaching the horizon, and her
rays were dimmed by the gathering mist. The darkness was increasing.
The whole party, accordingly, entered the broad street of Seymour under
the guidance of Paganel, who always seemed to be perfectly acquainted
with what he had never seen. But his instinct directed him, and he went
straight to Campbell's North British Hotel. Horses and oxen were taken
to the stable, the cart was put under the shed, and the travelers were
conducted to quite comfortable apartments.

At ten o'clock the guests took their seats at a table, over which
Olbinett had cast his experienced eye. Paganel had just explored the
town, in company with Robert, and now related his nocturnal impressions
in a very laconic style. He had seen absolutely nothing.