However, a man less absent-minded would have observed a certain
excitement in the streets of Seymour. Groups were formed here and
there, which gradually increased. People talked at the doors of the
houses, and questioned each other with an air of anxiety. Various daily
papers were read aloud, commented upon, and discussed. These signs,
one might suppose, could not have escaped the most careless observer;
Paganel, however, had suspected nothing.

The major, on the contrary, without even leaving the hotel, had
ascertained the fears that were agitating the little community. Ten
minutes' conversation with the loquacious landlord had informed him;
but he did not utter a word. Not until supper was over, and Lady
Helena, Mary, and Robert had retired to their chambers, did the major
say to his companions:

"They have traced the authors of the crime committed at Camden Bridge."

"Have they been arrested?" asked Ayrton, quickly.

"No," replied MacNabb, without seeming to notice the eagerness of the
quartermaster.

"So much the worse," added Ayrton.

"Well," inquired Glenarvan, "to whom do they attribute the crime?"

"Read," said the major, handing to Glenarvan a copy of the _Australian
and New Zealand Gazette_, "and you will see that the police-officer was
not mistaken."

Glenarvan read aloud the following passage:

"Sydney, Jan. 2, 1865.--It will be remembered that on the night of
December 29 an accident took place at Camden Bridge, five miles from
Castlemaine Station, on the Melbourne and Sandhurst Railway, by which
the night express was precipitated at full speed into the Lutton River.
Numerous thefts committed after the accident, and the corpse of the
guard found half a mile above, prove that it was the result of a crime;
and, in accordance with the verdict at the inquest, this crime is to
be attributed to a band of convicts who escaped, six months ago, from
the Perth penitentiary, in Western Australia, as they were about to
be transferred to Norfolk Island. These convicts are twenty-nine in
number, and are commanded by a certain Ben Joyce, a dangerous criminal,
who arrived in Australia several months ago in some way, and upon whom
justice has not yet succeeded in laying hands. The inhabitants of the
cities, and the colonists and squatters of the stations, are warned
to be on their guard, and requested to send to the undersigned any
information which may assist his investigations.

"J. P. MITCHELL, Surveyor-General."

*       *       *       *       *

When Glenarvan had finished reading this article, MacNabb turned to the
geographer and said:

"You see, Paganel, that there may yet be convicts in Australia."

"Runaways there may be, of course," replied Paganel, "but not those
who have been transported and regularly received. These people have no
right to be here."

"Well, at any rate they are here," continued Glenarvan; "but I do not
suppose that their presence need cause us to change our plans or delay
our journey. What do you think, captain?"

[Sidenote: LOOKING AT BOTH SIDES.]