Captain Mangles did not answer immediately. He hesitated between the
grief that the abandonment of the search would cause the two children,
and the fear of compromising the safety of the party.

"If Lady Glenarvan and Miss Grant were not with us," said he, "I should
care very little for this band of wretches."

Glenarvan understood him, and added:

"Of course it is not advisable to give up our undertaking; but perhaps
it would be prudent for the sake of the ladies to join the Duncan at
Melbourne, and continue our search for Captain Grant towards the east.
What do you think, MacNabb?"

"Before replying," said the major, "I should like to hear Ayrton's
opinion."

The quartermaster, thus addressed, looked at Glenarvan.

"I think," said he, "that, as we are two hundred miles from Melbourne,
the danger, if there is any, is as great on the southern as on the
eastern road. Both are little frequented, and one is as good as the
other. Moreover, I do not think that thirty malefactors can intimidate
eight well-armed and resolute men. Therefore, in the absence of better
advice, I should go on."

"Well said," replied Paganel. "By continuing our course we shall cross
Captain Grant's track, while by returning to the south we should go
directly away from it. I agree with you, therefore, and shall give
myself no uneasiness about the runaway convicts."

Thus the determination to make no change in the programme was
unanimously approved of.

"One more remark, my lord," said Ayrton, as they were about to separate.

"Speak."

"Would it not be advisable to send an order to the Duncan to sail to
the coast?"

"Why?" asked Captain Mangles. "It will be time enough to send the order
when we arrive at Twofold Bay. If any unforeseen event should compel
us to return to Melbourne, we might be sorry not to find the Duncan
there. Moreover, her injuries cannot yet have been repaired. I think,
therefore, that it would be better to wait."

"Well," replied Ayrton, without further remark.

The next day the little party, armed and ready for any emergency, left
Seymour, and half an hour after re-entered the forest of eucalyptuses,
which appeared again towards the east. Glenarvan would have preferred
to travel in the open country, for a plain is less favorable to sudden
attacks and ambuscades than a thick wood. But they had no alternative;
and the cart kept on all day between the tall, monotonous trees, and at
evening encamped on the borders of the district of Murray.