They were now setting foot on one of the least frequented portions of
the Australian continent, a vast uninhabited region stretching away to
the Australian Alps. At some future day its forests will be leveled,
and the home of the colonist will stand where now all is desolation;
but at present it is a desert. In this region is situated the so-styled
"reserve for the blacks." On these remote plains various spots have
been set apart, where the aboriginal race can enjoy to the full the
privilege of gradually becoming extinct. Though the white man is at
perfect liberty to invade this "reserved" territory, yet the black may
call it his own.

Paganel, who was in his element wherever statistics or history was
concerned, went into full details respecting the native races. He gave
a long account of the cruelties to which these unfortunate beings
had been subjected at the hands of the early colonists, and showed
how little had been done by the interference of the government. As
a striking instance of the manner in which the aborigines melt away
before the advance of civilization, he cited the case of Tasmania,
which at the beginning of this century had five thousand native
inhabitants, but in 1863 had only seven.

[Sidenote: STUDIES IN ANTHROPOLOGY.]

"Fifty years ago," said he, "we should have met in our course many
a tribe of natives; whereas thus far we have not seen even one. A
century hence, the black race will have utterly disappeared from this
continent."

At that moment Robert, halting in front of a group of eucalyptuses,
cried out:

"A monkey! there is a monkey!"

The cart was instantly stopped, and, looking in the direction
indicated by the boy, our travellers saw a huge black form moving with
astonishing agility from branch to branch, until it was lost from view
in the depths of the grove.

"What sort of a monkey is that?" asked MacNabb.

"That monkey," answered Paganel, "is a full-blooded Australian."

Just then were heard sounds of voices at some little distance; the oxen
were put in motion, and after proceeding a few hundred paces the party
came suddenly upon an encampment of aborigines, consisting of some
ten or twelve tents, made of strips of bark arranged in the manner of
tiles, and giving shelter to their wretched inhabitants on only one
side. Of these miserable beings there were about thirty, men, women,
and children, dressed in ragged kangaroo-skins. Their first movement
was one of flight; but a few words from Ayrton restored confidence, and
they slowly approached the party of Europeans.