The major jocularly insisted that Robert was correct in saying that
he had seen a monkey; but Lady Helena declined to accept his views,
and, getting out of the cart, made friendly advances to these degraded
beings, who seemed to look upon her as a divinity. Reassured by her
gentle manner, they surrounded the travelers, and began to cast wishful
glances at the provisions which the cart contained. Glenarvan, at the
request of his wife, distributed a quantity of food among the hungry
group.

After this had been dispatched, our friends were favored by their new
acquaintances with a sham fight, which lasted about ten minutes, the
women urging on the combatants and pretending to mutilate those who
fell in the fray. Suddenly the excited crowd dropped their arms, and
a profound silence succeeded to the din of war. A flight of cockatoos
had made its appearance in the neighboring trees; and the opportunity
to display their proficiency in the use of the boomerang was at once
improved by the Australians. The skill manifested in the construction
and use of this instrument served Lady Helena as a strong argument
against the monkey theory, though the major pretended that he was not
yet convinced.

Lord Glenarvan was now about to give the order to advance, when a
native came running up with the news that he had discovered half
a dozen cassowaries. The chase that followed, with the ingenious
disguise assumed by the hunter, and the marvelous fidelity with which
he imitated the movements and cries of the bird, was witnessed with
interest by the travelers. Lady Helena adduced the skill displayed as
a still further argument against the major's theory; but the obstinate
MacNabb declined to recede from his position, citing to his antagonist
the statement of the negroes concerning the orang-outangs,--that they
are negroes like themselves, only that they are too cunning to talk,
for fear of being made to work.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

WEALTH IN THE WILDERNESS.

[Sidenote: A PIANO IN THE DESERT.]

After a peaceful night, the travelers, at seven o'clock in the morning,
resumed their journey eastward over the plains. Twice they crossed the
tracks of squatters, leading towards the north; and then the different
hoof-prints would have been confounded if Glenarvan's horse had not
left upon the dust the Black Point mark, distinguishable by its three
trefoils.

Sometimes the plain was furrowed with winding creeks, bordered by
box-wood, which took their source on the slopes of the Buffalo Range,
a chain of mountains whose picturesque outlines stretched along the
horizon, and which the party resolved to reach that evening. Ayrton
urged on his oxen, and, after a journey of thirty-five miles, they
reached the place. The tent was pitched beneath a great tree. Night had
come, and supper was quickly dispatched; all thought more of sleeping
than of eating, after the fatigues of the day.