Paganel, to whom fell the first watch, did not lie down, but, rifle on
shoulder, guarded the encampment, walking to and fro that he might the
better resist sleep. In spite of the absence of the moon, the night was
almost bright with the splendor of the southern constellations; and the
geographer amused himself in reading the great book of the firmament,
which is always open. The silence of sleeping nature was broken only
by the sound of the horses' chains as they rattled against their feet.
Paganel was becoming fully absorbed in his astronomical meditations,
and occupying himself more with the things of heaven than those of
earth, when a distant sound startled him from his reverie.

He listened attentively, and, to his great astonishment, thought he
distinguished the tones of a piano. A few boldly-struck chords wafted
to his ears their harmonious vibrations. He could not be mistaken.

"A piano in the desert!" said he to himself. "It cannot be!"

It was indeed very surprising, and Paganel began to think that some
strange Australian bird was imitating the sound of the instrument.

[Sidenote: A TWOFOLD SURPRISE.]

But at that moment a voice, harmoniously pitched, was heard. The
pianist was accompanied by a vocalist. The geographer listened
incredulously, but in a few moments was forced to recognize the
sublime air that struck upon his ear. It was "_Il mio tesoro tanto_"
from Don Juan.

"Parbleu!" thought the geographer, "however strange the Australian
birds may be, or even though the parrots were the most musical in the
world, they could not sing Mozart."

He listened to the end of this grand inspiration of the master. The
effect of this sweet melody, in the stillness of the starlit night,
was indescribable. He remained a long time under the influences of its
enchantment. At last the voice ceased, and all was silent.

When Wilson came to relieve the geographer, he found him wrapt in a
profound reverie. Paganel said nothing to the sailor, but, reserving
his account of the incident for Glenarvan the next day, he crept into
the tent.

In the morning the whole party were awakened by unexpected bayings.
Glenarvan at once arose. Two magnificent pointers were gamboling along
the edge of a small wood; but at the approach of the travelers they
disappeared among the trees, barking loudly.

"There must be a station in this desert," said Glenarvan, "and hunters,
since those are hunting-dogs."

Paganel was just about to relate his experiences of the past night,
when two men appeared, in hunting costume, mounted on fine horses. They
naturally stopped at sight of the little party, encamped in gypsy-like
fashion, and seemed to be wondering what the presence of armed men in
this place meant, when they perceived the ladies, who were alighting
from the cart.

They immediately dismounted, and advanced towards them, hat in hand.
Glenarvan went to meet them, and introduced himself and party, giving
the name and rank of each member. The young men bowed, and one of them,
the elder, said: