"My lord, will your ladies, your companions, and yourself do us the
honor to accompany us to our house?"

"May I ask, gentlemen, whom I have the honor of addressing?" inquired
Glenarvan.

"Michael and Alexander Patterson, proprietors of Hottam Station. You
are already on the grounds of the establishment, and have but a quarter
of a mile to go."

"Gentlemen," replied Glenarvan, "I should be unwilling to slight a
hospitality so graciously offered----"

"My lord," interrupted Michael Patterson, "by accepting you will confer
a favor upon two poor colonists, who will be only too happy to extend
to you the honors of the desert."

Glenarvan bowed in token of assent.

"Sir," said Paganel, addressing Michael Patterson, "should I be too
inquisitive were I to ask if it was you who sang that divine air of
Mozart last night?"

"It was I, sir," replied the gentleman; "and my brother accompanied me."

"Well, sir," continued Paganel, extending his hand, "accept the sincere
compliments of a Frenchman, who is an ardent admirer of Mozart's music."

The young man modestly returned the geographer's greeting, and then
pointed towards the right to the road they were to take. The horses had
been confided to the care of Ayrton and the sailors, and the travelers
at once betook themselves on foot to Hottam Station, under the guidance
of the two young men.

It was a magnificent establishment, characterized by the perfect order
of an English park. Immense meadows, inclosed by fences, extended as
far as the eye could reach. Here grazed thousands of oxen and sheep.
Numerous shepherds and still more numerous dogs tended this vast herd,
while with the bellowing and bleating mingled the baying of mastiffs
and the sharp crack of stock-whips.

[Sidenote: ARTIFICIAL SELECTION.]

To the east the prospect was broken by a border of gum-trees, beyond
which rose the imposing peak of Mount Hottam, seven thousand five
hundred feet high. Long avenues of tall trees stretched in all
directions, while here and there stood dense clumps of grass-trees,
shrubby plants about ten feet high, resembling the dwarf palm, with a
thick foliage of long narrow leaves. The air was laden with the perfume
of laurels, whose clusters of white flowers in full bloom exhaled the
most delicate fragrance.

With the charming groups of native trees were mingled those
transplanted from European climes. The peach, the pear, the apple,
the fig, the orange, and even the oak were hailed with delight by the
travelers, who, if they were not astonished at walking in the shade of
the trees of their country, wondered, at least, at the sight of the
birds that fluttered among the branches, the satin-birds with their
silky plumage, and the canaries, clad in golden and black velvet.

Here, for the first time, they saw the menure, or lyre-bird, whose tail
has the form of the graceful instrument of Orpheus. As the bird fled
away among the arborescent ferns, its tail striking the branches, they
almost expected to hear those harmonious chords that helped Amphion to
rebuild the walls of Thebes.