Lord Glenarvan was not satisfied with merely admiring the fairy
wonders of this oasis of the Australian desert. He listened with
profound interest to the young men's story. In England, in the heart
of civilization, a new-comer would have first informed his host
whence he came and whither he was going; but here, by a nice shade
of distinction, Michael and Sandy Patterson thought they should
make themselves known to the travelers to whom they offered their
hospitalities, and briefly told their story.

[Sidenote: NATURE AND ART.]

It was like that of all intelligent and active young Englishmen,
who do not believe that the possession of riches absolves from the
responsibility to labor for the welfare of others. Michael and
Alexander Patterson were the sons of a London banker. When they were
twenty years old, their father had said: "Here is money, my sons. Go
to some distant land, found there a useful establishment, and acquire
in labor the knowledge of life. If you succeed, so much the better; if
you fail, it matters little. We shall not regret the money that will
have enabled you to become men." They obeyed; they chose the province
of Victoria as the place to sow the paternal bank-notes, and had no
reason to repent. At the end of three years their establishment had
attained its present prosperity.

They had just finished the brief account of their career, when the
dwelling came in sight at the end of a fine avenue of trees. It was a
charming house of wood and brick, surrounded by clusters of plants, and
had the elegant form of a Swiss cottage, while a veranda, from which
hung Chinese lanterns, encircled it like a Roman impluvium. The windows
were shaded by brilliant-colored awnings, which at a distance looked
almost like masses of flowers. Nothing could be prettier, cozier, or
pleasanter to the sight. On the lawn and among the shrubbery round
about stood bronze candelabra, supporting elegant lamps with glass
globes, which at nightfall illumined the whole garden with a beauteous
light.

No farm-hands, stables, or outhouses were to be seen,--nothing that
indicated scenes of toil. The dwellings of the workmen--a regular
village, consisting of some twenty cottages--were a quarter of a mile
distant, in the heart of a little valley. Telegraph-wires secured
immediate communication between the village and the house of the
proprietors, which, far from all tumult, was in truth "a thing of
beauty."

The avenue was soon passed. A little iron bridge, of great elegance,
crossing a murmuring stream, gave access to the private grounds. A
courteous attendant advanced to meet the travelers; the doors of
the house were opened, and the guests of Hottam Station entered the
sumptuous dwelling.