All the luxuries of refined and civilized life seemed to be present.
Into the vestibule, which was adorned with decorative subjects,
illustrating the turf or the chase, opened a spacious parlor, lighted
with five windows. A piano, covered with classic and modern music;
easels, upon which were half-finished paintings; marble statues,
mounted on tasteful pedestals; on the walls, a few pictures by Flemish
masters; rich carpets, soft to the feet as grassy meadows; panels of
tapestry, descriptive of pleasing mythological episodes; an antique
chandelier, costly chinaware, delicate vases, and a great variety
of articles of _virtù_, indicated a high appreciation of beauty and
comfort. Everything that could please, everything that could relieve
the tedium of a voluntary exile, everything that could remind one of a
luxurious European home, was to be found in this fairy abode. It would
have been easy to imagine oneself in some princely castle of England,
France, or Germany.

The five windows admitted, through delicate curtains, a light tempered
and softened by the shadows of the veranda. Lady Helena looked out,
and was astonished. The house, upon this side, commanded the view of a
broad valley, which extended to the eastern mountains. The alternation
of meadow and woodland, broken here and there by vast clearings, the
graceful sweep of the hill-sides, and the outlines of the entire
landscape, formed a picture beyond the power of description. This vast
panorama, intersected by broad bands of light and shade, changed every
hour with the progress of the sun.

In the mean time, in accordance with the hosts' orders, breakfast
had been prepared by the steward of the station, and in less than a
quarter of an hour the travelers were seated at a bountiful table. The
quality of the viands and the wines was unexceptionable; but what was
especially gratifying, in the midst of these refinements of wealth, was
the evident pleasure experienced by the young settlers in dispensing to
strangers, beneath their own roof, this magnificent hospitality.

[Sidenote: AUSTRALIANS, NATIVE AND IMPORTED.]

The young gentlemen were soon made acquainted with the object of the
expedition, and took a lively interest in Glenarvan's search, giving
also great encouragement to the captain's children.

"Harry Grant," said Michael, "has evidently fallen into the hands of
the natives, since he has not appeared in the settlements on the coast.
He knew his position exactly, as the document proves, and, as he has
not reached any English colony, he must have been made prisoner by the
natives as soon as he landed."

"That is precisely what happened to his quartermaster, Ayrton," replied
Captain Mangles.

"But, gentlemen," inquired Lady Helena, "have you never heard of the
shipwreck of the Britannia?"

"Never, madam," said Michael.

"And what treatment do you think Captain Grant would experience as a
prisoner among the Australians?"