"The Australians are not cruel, madam," replied the young settler:
"Miss Grant may reassure herself on this point. There are many
instances of their kindness; and some Europeans have lived a long time
among them, without having any reason to complain of brutality." These
words corroborated the information previously given by Paganel and
Ayrton.

When the ladies had left the table, the conversation turned upon
convicts. The settlers had heard of the accident at Camden Bridge,
but the band of runaways gave no uneasiness, they would not dare to
attack a station that was guarded by more than a hundred men. They were
confident, too, that they would not venture into the deserted regions
of the Murray, nor into the colonies of New South Wales, where the
roads are well protected.

[Sidenote: A DAY'S SPORT.]

Glenarvan could not decline the invitation of his amiable hosts to
spend the entire day at Hottam Station. The delay thus occasioned
could be turned to good account: the horses and oxen would be
greatly benefited by their rest in the comfortable stables of the
establishment. It was, therefore, decided to remain, and the two young
men submitted to their guests a programme for the day's sports, which
was adopted with alacrity.

At noon, seven fine hunters pawed the ground at the gate of the
house. For the ladies was provided an elegant coach, and the long
reins enabled their driver to show his skill in manoeuvring the
"four-in-hand." The horsemen, accompanied by outriders, and well armed,
galloped beside the carriage, while the pack of hounds bayed joyously
in the coppices.

For four hours the cavalcade traversed the paths and avenues of these
spacious grounds. As for game, an army of bushmen could not have
started up a greater number of animals. Young Robert, who kept close to
the major's side, accomplished wonders. The intrepid boy, in spite of
his sister's injunctions, was always ahead, and the first to fire. But
Captain Mangles had promised to watch over him, a fact which tended not
a little to allay Miss Grant's apprehension for her brother's safety.

Of all the sports of the day the most interesting was unquestionably
a kangaroo hunt. About four o'clock the dogs started a troop of these
curious animals. The little ones took refuge in their mothers' pouches,
and the whole drove rushed away in single file. Nothing can be more
astonishing than the enormous bounds of the kangaroo, whose hind legs
are twice as long as its fore ones, and bend like a spring. At the head
of the drove was a male five feet high,--"an old man," in the language
of the bushmen.