For four or five miles the chase was briskly continued. The kangaroos
did not slacken their pace; and the dogs, who feared, with good reason,
the powerful blows of their formidable paws, did not venture to
approach them. But at last the drove stopped in exhaustion, and "the
old man" braced himself against the trunk of a tree, ready to fight
for his life. One of the pointers, carried on by the impetus of his
course, rolled within reach of him. A moment after, the unfortunate
dog was tossed into the air, and fell back lifeless. The entire pack,
deterred by the fate of their comrade, kept at a respectful distance.
It became necessary to dispatch the kangaroo with the rifle, and
nothing but bullets could bring down the gigantic quadruped.

At this juncture Robert narrowly escaped being the victim of his
rashness. In order to make sure of his aim, he approached so near the
kangaroo that the animal made a spring at him. Robert fell. A cry of
alarm resounded. Mary Grant, speechless with apprehension, stretched
her hands towards her brother. No one dared to fire, for fear of
hitting the boy.

Suddenly Captain Mangles, with his hunting-knife open, rushed upon the
kangaroo, at the risk of his life, and stabbed it to the heart. The
beast fell dead, and Robert rose unharmed. An instant after, he was in
the arms of his sister.

"Thanks, Captain Mangles! thanks!" said Mary, extending her hand to the
young captain.

"I promised to take care of him," replied the captain, as he took the
trembling hand of the young girl.

This adventure ended the hunt. The troop of kangaroos had scattered
after the death of their leader, whose carcass was brought to the house.

It was now six o'clock, and dinner was in readiness for the hunters;
comprising, among other dishes, a soup of kangaroo's tail, prepared in
the native style.

After a dessert of ices and sherbet, the party repaired to the parlor,
where the evening was devoted to music. Lady Helena, who was a good
pianiste, presided at the instrument, while Michael and Alexander
Patterson sang with great taste selections from the latest compositions
of the modern musical masters.

[Sidenote: A FRESH DEPARTURE.]

At eleven o'clock tea was served in true English style. Paganel
having desired to taste the Australian tea, a liquid, black as ink,
was brought to him. It consisted of a quart of water, in which half
a pound of tea had been boiled four hours. Paganel, with a wry face,
pronounced it excellent. At midnight the guests were conducted to cool
and comfortable chambers, where they renewed in dreams the pleasures of
the day.