The next morning, at sunrise, they took leave of the two young
settlers, with many thanks, and with warmly-expressed hopes to see them
at Malcolm Castle at no very distant day. The cart then started, and in
a few minutes, as the road wound around the foot of Mount Hottam, the
hospitable habitation disappeared, like a passing vision, from the eyes
of the travelers. For five miles farther they traversed the grounds
of the station, and not till nine o'clock did the little party pass
the last palisade and enter upon the almost unknown districts of the
country before them.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

SUSPICIOUS OCCURRENCES.

A mighty barrier crossed the road on the southeast. It was the chain
of the Australian Alps, which extend in capricious windings fifteen
hundred miles, and are capped with clouds four thousand feet aloft.

[Sidenote: ASCENDING THE MOUNTAINS.]

The sky was dull and lowering, and the rays of the sun struggled
through dense masses of mist. The temperature was, therefore,
endurable; but the journey was difficult on account of the irregularity
of the surface. The unevenness of the plain constantly increased,
and here and there rose mounds, covered with young green gum-trees.
Farther on, these excrescences formed the first slopes of the great
Alps. The ascent was very laborious, as was shown by the efforts of the
oxen, whose yokes cracked under the tension of the heavy vehicle. The
animals panted heavily, and the muscles of their hams were strained
almost to breaking. The axles threatened to give way under the sudden
jolts that Ayrton, with all his skill, could not prevent. The ladies,
however, lost none of their accustomed cheerfulness.

Captain Mangles and the two sailors rode a few hundred paces in
advance, to choose practicable passes. It was a difficult and often a
perilous task. Several times Wilson was forced to make a way with his
hatchet through the midst of dense thickets. Their course deviated in
many windings, which impassable obstacles, lofty blocks of granite,
deep ravines, and treacherous swamps compelled them to make. At evening
they encamped at the foot of the Alps, on the banks of a small stream
that flowed along the edge of a plain covered with tall shrubbery,
whose bright-red foliage enlivened the banks.

"We shall have difficulty in passing here," said Glenarvan, as he gazed
at the chain of mountains, whose outlines were already growing dim in
the twilight. "Alps! that is a name suggestive of arduous climbing."

"You will change your opinion, my dear Glenarvan," replied Paganel.
"You must not think you are in Switzerland."

"Then these Australian Alps----?" asked Lady Helena.

"Are miniature mountains," continued Paganel. "You will cross them
without noticing it."