The next day, in spite of the assurances of the confident geographer,
the little party found great difficulty in crossing the mountains. They
were forced to advance at a venture, and descend into deep and narrow
gorges that, for aught they knew, might end in a wall of rock. Ayrton
would doubtless have been eventually nonplused had they not, after an
hour's climbing, caught sight of a tavern on one of the paths of the
mountain.

"Well!" said Paganel, as they reached the hostelry, "the proprietor of
this inn cannot make a great fortune in such a place. Of what use can
he be?"

"To give us the information we need for our journey," replied
Glenarvan. "Let us go in."

Glenarvan, followed by Ayrton, entered the tavern. The landlord of
"Bush Inn" was a coarse man, of forbidding appearance, who had to
consider himself as the principal customer for the gin, brandy, and
whisky of his tavern, and scarcely ever saw any one but squatters or
herdsmen.

He replied in an ill-humored way to the questions that were addressed
him; but his answers sufficed to determine Ayrton upon his course.
Glenarvan, however, remunerated the tavern-keeper for the little
trouble they had given him, and was about to leave the inn, when a
placard, affixed to the wall, attracted his attention. It was a notice
of the colonial police, detailing the escape of the convicts from
Perth, and setting a price upon the head of Ben Joyce--a hundred pounds
sterling to any one who should deliver him up.

"Indeed," said Glenarvan, "that is a rascal worth hanging."

"And especially worth taking," replied Ayrton. "A hundred pounds! What
a sum! He is not worth it."

"As for the inn-keeper," added Glenarvan, as he left the room, "I
scarcely put faith in him, despite his placard."

"Nor I either," said Ayrton.

Glenarvan and the quartermaster rejoined the party, and they all
proceeded to where a narrow pass wound across the chain. Here they
began the ascent.

[Sidenote: ANOTHER DEATH.]

But it was an arduous task. More than once the ladies and their
companions had to dismount, and it was often necessary to push the
wheels of the heavy vehicle at some steep ascent, or to hold it
back along the edge of some dangerous precipice. The oxen, as they
could not work to advantage at sudden turns, had frequently to be
unyoked, and the cart blocked to prevent it from sliding back. Ayrton
was repeatedly forced to bring the already exhausted horses to his
assistance.

Whether this exertion was too prolonged, or whether from some other
cause, one of the horses gave out during the ascent. He fell suddenly,
without an instant's warning. It was Mulready's horse; and when the
sailor attempted to help him up, he found that he was dead. Ayrton
examined the animal carefully, but did not seem to understand the cause
of this sudden death.

"The beast must have burst a blood-vessel," said Glenarvan.

"Evidently," replied Ayrton.

"Take my horse, Mulready," added Glenarvan; "I will join Lady Helena in
the cart."