Mulready obeyed, and the little party continued their fatiguing ascent,
abandoning the body to the crows.

The next day they began the descent, which was much more rapid. During
its course a violent hail-storm burst on them, and they were forced to
seek a shelter beneath the rocks. Not hailstones, but pieces of ice as
large as one's hand, were precipitated from the angry clouds. A sling
could not have hurled them with greater force, and several sharp blows
warned Paganel and Robert to be on their guard. The cart was pierced
through in many places: indeed, few roofs could have resisted the fall
of these cutting missiles, some of which froze to the trunks of the
trees. It was necessary to wait for the end of this avalanche, for fear
of being stoned to death, and it was an hour before the party regained
the steep path, still slippery with icy incrustations. At evening the
cart, considerably shattered, but still firm on its wooden wheels,
descended the last slopes of the Alps, between tall solitary pines, and
reached the plains of Gippsland.

[Sidenote: DIVIDED COUNSELS.]

All were impatient to gain their destination, the Pacific Ocean,
where the Britannia had been wrecked. There only could traces of the
shipwrecked seamen be found, and not in these desert regions. Ayrton
urged Lord Glenarvan to send an order to the Duncan to repair to the
coast, that he might have at his disposal all the aid possible in his
search. In his opinion they ought to take advantage of the Lucknow
road, which would lead them to Melbourne. Afterwards this might be
difficult, for highways leading directly to the capital would be
absolutely wanting.

This advice of the quartermaster seemed reasonable. Paganel seconded
it. He thought, too, that the yacht would be very useful under the
present circumstances, and added that they could no longer communicate
with Melbourne after passing the Lucknow road.

Glenarvan was undecided, and perhaps would have sent the order that
Ayrton so particularly desired, if the major had not opposed this plan
with great energy. He explained that Ayrton's presence was necessary
to the expedition; that on approaching the coast the country would be
unknown; that, if chance set them on the track of Captain Grant, the
quartermaster would be more capable than any one else of following it;
in short, that he alone could point out the place where the Britannia
was lost.

MacNabb, therefore, advocated their continuing on the journey without
change. Captain Mangles was of the same opinion. The young captain
observed that his lordship's orders could more easily reach the Duncan
if sent from Twofold Bay, than by dispatching a messenger two hundred
miles over a wild country.

The major carried his point, and it was therefore decided that they
should proceed to Twofold Bay. MacNabb noticed that Ayrton seemed quite
disappointed, but he said nothing, and, according to his custom, kept
his thoughts to himself.