Early in the afternoon they passed through a curious forest of ferns.
These arborescent plants, in full bloom, measured thirty feet in
height. Horses and horsemen could easily pass beneath their drooping
branches, and sometimes the rowel of a spur would ring, as it struck
against their solid stalks. The coolness of the grove was very grateful
to the wearied travelers. Paganel, always demonstrative, gave vent to
exclamations of delight that startled flocks of parrots and cockatoos.

All at once his companions saw the geographer reel in the saddle, and
fall to the ground like a log. Was it giddiness, or sunstroke, caused
by the heat?

They hastened to him.

"Paganel! Paganel! what is the matter?" cried Lord Glenarvan.

"The matter is, my dear friend," replied Paganel, extricating himself
from the stirrups, "that I no longer have a horse."

"What! your horse----?"

"Is dead, stricken like Mulready's."

At once Glenarvan, Captain Mangles, and Wilson examined the animal.
Paganel was right. His horse had been suddenly stricken dead.

"This is singular," said the captain.

"Very singular indeed," muttered the major.

Glenarvan could not restrain a feeling of uneasiness at this strange
occurrence. It was impossible for them to retrace their steps in this
desert; while, if an epidemic were to seize all the horses, it would be
very difficult to continue the journey.

Before the end of the day his fears seemed to be justified. A third
horse, Wilson's, fell dead, and, what was worse, one of the oxen was
also stricken. Their means of conveyance now consisted of only three
oxen and four horses.

[Sidenote: A FINE FERNERY.]

The situation had grown serious. The mounted horsemen could, of course,
take turns in traveling on foot. But, if it should be necessary to
leave the cart behind, what would become of the ladies? Could they
accomplish the one hundred and twenty miles that still separated them
from Twofold Bay?

Captain Mangles and Glenarvan anxiously examined the remaining horses:
perhaps preventives might be found against new calamities. No sign
of disease, however, could be detected. The animals were in perfect
health, and bravely endured the hardships of the journey. Glenarvan,
therefore, was inclined to think that this mysterious epidemic would
have no more victims. This was Ayrton's opinion too, who declared that
he could not at all understand the cause of the frightful mortality.

They started again, and the cart served to convey the pedestrians, who
rode in it by turns. At evening, after a journey of only ten miles, the
signal to halt was given, the encampment arranged, and the night was
passed comfortably beneath a large group of arborescent ferns, among
whose branches fluttered enormous bats.