The next day they made an excellent beginning, and accomplished fifteen
miles. Everything led them to hope that they would encamp that evening
on the banks of the Snowy River. Evening came, and a fog, clearly
defined against the horizon, marked the course of the long-looked-for
stream. A forest of tall trees was seen at a bend in the road, behind
a moderate elevation. Ayrton guided his oxen towards the tall trunks
dimly discerned in the shadow, and was just passing the boundary of the
wood, when the cart sank into the earth to the hubs.

"What is the matter?" asked Glenarvan, when he perceived that the cart
had come to a stop.

"We are fast in the mud," replied Ayrton.

He urged his oxen with voice and whip, but they were up to their knees
in the mire, and could not stir.

"Let us encamp here," said Captain Mangles.

"That is the best plan," answered Ayrton. "To-morrow, at daybreak, we
can see to extricate ourselves."

"Very well: be it so," replied Glenarvan.

Night had set in rapidly, after a short twilight, but the heat had not
departed with the sun. The air was heavy with stifling mists. Flashes
of lightning, the dazzling forerunners of a coming storm, every now and
then illumined the horizon.

The beds were prepared, and the sunken cart was made as comfortable as
possible. The sombre arch of the great trees sheltered the tent of the
travelers. Provided no rain fell, they would have no reason to complain.

Ayrton succeeded with difficulty in extricating his three oxen from
the mud, in which they had by this time sunk to their flanks. The
quartermaster picketed them with the four horses, and would allow no
one to give them their fodder. This service he performed himself with
great exactness, and that evening Glenarvan observed that his care was
redoubled, for which he thanked him, as the preservation of the team
was of paramount importance.

Meantime, the travelers partook of a hasty supper. Fatigue and heat had
driven away hunger, and they needed rest more than nourishment. Lady
Helena and Miss Grant, wishing their companions good-night, retired to
their accustomed bedroom. As for the men, some crawled under the tent,
while others stretched themselves on the thick grass at the foot of the
trees.

Gradually each sank into a heavy sleep. The darkness increased beneath
the curtain of dense clouds that covered the sky. Not a breath of
air was felt. The silence of the night was only interrupted by the
occasional howlings of wild animals.

About eleven o'clock, after an uneasy slumber, the major awoke. His
half-closed eyes were attracted by a dim light that flickered beneath
the great trees. One would have thought it was a whitish sheet
glittering like the surface of a lake. MacNabb imagined, at first, that
the flames of a conflagration were spreading over the ground.

[Sidenote: STRANGE SIGHTS AND SOUNDS.]