He rose and walked towards the wood. His surprise was great when
he found himself in the presence of a purely natural phenomenon.
Before him extended an immense field of mushrooms, which emitted
phosphorescent flashes.

The major, who was not selfish, was about to waken Paganel, that the
geographer might witness the spectacle with his own eyes, when an
unexpected sight stopped him.

The phosphorescent light illumined the wood for the space of half a
mile, and MacNabb thought he saw shadows rapidly moving along the edge
of the clearing. Did his eyes deceive him? Was he the sport of an
illusion?

He crouched down, and, after a long and attentive observation,
distinctly perceived several men, who seemed by their movements to be
searching the ground for something. What could these men want? He must
know, and, without an instant's hesitation or awakening his companions,
he crawled along on all-fours, carefully concealing himself in the tall
grass.

CHAPTER XL.

A STARTLING DISCOVERY.

[Sidenote: INCREASING PERPLEXITIES.]

It was a terrible night. At two o'clock in the morning the rain began
to fall in torrents, which continued to pour from the stormy clouds
till daylight. The tent was an insufficient shelter. Glenarvan and
his companions took refuge in the cart, where they passed the time
in conversing upon various subjects. The major, however, whose short
absence no one had noticed, contented himself with listening in
silence. The fury of the tempest gave them considerable uneasiness,
since it might cause an inundation, by which the cart, fast in the
mire, would be overwhelmed.

More than once Mulready, Ayrton, and Captain Mangles went to ascertain
the height of the rushing waters, and returned drenched from head to
foot.

At length day appeared. The rain ceased, but the rays of the sun failed
to penetrate the thick veil of clouds. Large pools of muddy, yellowish
water covered the ground. A warm vapor issued from the water-soaked
earth and saturated the atmosphere with a sickly moisture.

Glenarvan, first of all, turned his attention to the cart. In his eyes,
this was their main support. It was imbedded fast in the midst of a
deep hollow of sticky clay. The fore wheels were almost entirely out of
sight, and the hind ones were buried up to the hubs. It would be a very
difficult matter to pull out the heavy vehicle, and would undoubtedly
require the united strength of men, oxen, and horses.

"We must make haste," said Captain Mangles. "If this clay dries, the
work will be more difficult."

Glenarvan, the two sailors, the captain, and Ayrton then entered the
wood, where the animals had passed the night.