It was a tall forest of gloomy gum-trees. Nothing met the eye but dead
trunks, widely separated, which had been destitute of their bark for
centuries. Not a bird built its nest on these lofty skeletons; not a
leaf trembled on the dry branches, that rattled together like a bundle
of dry bones. Glenarvan, as he walked on, gazed at the leaden sky,
against which the branches of the gum-trees were sharply defined. To
Ayrton's great astonishment, there was no trace of the horses and oxen
in the place where he had left them. The fettered animals, however,
could not have gone far.

They searched for them in the wood, but failed to find them. Ayrton
then returned to the banks of the river, which was bordered by
magnificent mimosas. He uttered a cry well known to his oxen, but
there was no answer. The quartermaster seemed very anxious, and his
companions glanced at each other in dismay.

An hour passed in a vain search, and Glenarvan was returning to the
cart, which was at least a mile off, when a neigh fell upon his ear,
followed almost immediately by a bellow.

"Here they are!" cried Captain Mangles, forcing his way between the
tall tufts of the gastrolobium, which were high enough to conceal a
whole herd.

Glenarvan, Mulready, and Ayrton rushed after him, and soon shared his
astonishment. Two oxen and three horses lay upon the ground, stricken
like the others. Their bodies were already cold, and a flock of hungry
crows, croaking in the mimosas, waited for their unexpected prey.

Glenarvan and his friends gazed at each other, and Wilson did not
suppress an oath that rose to his lips.

"What is the matter, Wilson?" said Lord Glenarvan, scarcely able to
control himself. "We can do nothing. Ayrton, bring the ox and horse
that are left. They must extricate us from the difficulty."

"If the cart were once out of the mud," replied Captain Mangles, "these
two animals, by short journeys, could draw it to the coast. We must,
therefore, at all events, release the clumsy vehicle."

"We will try, John," said Glenarvan. "Let us return to camp, for there
must be anxiety at our long absence."

Ayrton took charge of the ox, and Mulready of the horse, and the party
returned along the winding banks of the river. Half an hour after,
Paganel, MacNabb, Lady Helena, and Miss Grant were told the state of
affairs.

"By my faith," the major could not help exclaiming, "it is a pity,
Ayrton, that you did not shoe all our animals on crossing the Wimerra."

"Why so, sir?" asked Ayrton.

"Because of all our horses only the one you put into the hands of the
farrier has escaped the common fate."

"That is true," said Captain Mangles; "and it is a singular
coincidence!"

[Sidenote: MISTAKES AND MISAPPREHENSIONS.]

"A coincidence, and nothing more," replied the quartermaster, gazing
fixedly at the major.