"Very well, my lord," replied the quartermaster, unyoking his exhausted
animals.

"Now, my friends," added Glenarvan, "let us return to camp, deliberate,
consider our situation, know what our chances are, and come to a
resolution."

A few minutes after, the travelers were indemnifying themselves for
their sleeplessness the past night by a good breakfast, and the
discussion of their affairs began.

The first question was to determine the exact position of the
encampment. Paganel was charged with this duty, and fulfilled it with
his customary precision.

"How far are we from Twofold Bay?" asked Glenarvan.

"Seventy-five miles," replied Paganel.

"And Melbourne is----?"

"Two hundred miles distant, at least."

"Very well. Our position being determined," continued Glenarvan, "what
is it best to do?"

The answer was unanimous,--make for the coast without delay. Lady
Helena and Mary Grant engaged to travel fifteen miles a day. The
courageous women did not shrink from traversing the entire distance on
foot, if necessary.

"But are we certain to find at the bay the resources that we need?"
asked Glenarvan.

"Without doubt," replied Paganel. "Eden is not a new municipality; and
its harbor must have frequent communication with Melbourne. I even
believe that thirty-five miles from here, at the parish of Delegete, we
can obtain provisions and the means of conveyance."

"And the Duncan?" asked Ayrton. "Do you not think it advisable to order
her to the bay?"

"What say you, captain?" said Glenarvan.

"I do not think that there is any necessity for such a proceeding,"
replied the young captain, after reflection. "There will be plenty of
time to send your orders to Tom Austin and summon him to the coast."

"That is quite true," added Paganel.

"Besides," continued Captain Mangles, "in four or five days we shall be
at Eden."

"Four or five days!" interposed Ayrton, shaking his head; "say fifteen
or twenty, captain, if you do not wish to regret your error hereafter."

[Sidenote: DIFFICULTIES FORESEEN.]

"Fifteen or twenty days to make seventy-five miles!" exclaimed
Glenarvan.

"At least, my lord. You will have to cross the most difficult portion
of Victoria,--plains covered with underbrush, without any cleared
roads, where it has been impossible to establish stations. You will
have to travel with the hatchet or the torch in your hand; and, believe
me, you will not advance rapidly."

Ayrton's tone was that of a man who is thoroughly acquainted with his
subject. Paganel, towards whom questioning glances were turned, nodded
approvingly at the words of the quartermaster.

"I acknowledge the difficulties," said Captain Mangles, at length.
"Well, in fifteen days, my lord, you can send your orders to the
Duncan."

"I may add," resumed Ayrton, "that the principal obstacles do not
proceed from the roughness of the journey. We must cross the Snowy,
and, very probably, have to wait for the subsidence of the waters."

"Wait!" cried the captain. "Can we not find a ford?"