"I think not," replied Ayrton. "This morning I searched in vain for a
practicable one. It is unusual to find a river so much swollen at this
season; it is a fatality against which I am powerless."

"This Snowy River is broad, then?" remarked Lady Glenarvan.

"Broad and deep, madam," answered Ayrton; "a mile in breadth, with a
strong current. A good swimmer could not cross it without danger."

"Well, then, let us build a boat!" cried Robert, who was never at fault
for a plan. "We can cut down a tree, hollow it out, embark, and the
thing is done."

"Good for the son of Captain Grant!" replied Paganel.

"The boy is right," continued Captain Mangles. "We shall be forced
to this. I therefore think it useless to waste our time in further
discussions."

"What do you think, Ayrton?" asked Glenarvan.

"I think, my lord, that if no assistance comes, in a month we shall
still be detained on the banks of the Snowy."

"But have you a better plan?" inquired Captain Mangles, somewhat
impatiently.

"Yes; let the Duncan leave Melbourne, and sail to the eastern coast."

"How can her presence in the bay assist us to arrive there?"

Ayrton meditated for a few moments, and then said, evasively:

"I do not wish to obtrude my opinion. What I do is for the interest
of all, and I am disposed to start as soon as your lordship gives the
signal for departure."

Then he folded his arms.

"That is no answer, Ayrton," continued Glenarvan. "Tell us your plan,
and we will discuss it. What do you propose?"

In a calm and confident tone the quartermaster thereupon expressed
himself as follows:

"I propose that we do not venture beyond the Snowy in our present
destitute condition. We must wait for assistance in this very place,
and this assistance can come only from the Duncan. Let us encamp here
where provisions are not wanting, while one of us carries to Tom Austin
the order to repair to Twofold Bay."

This unexpected proposal was received with a murmur of astonishment,
and Captain Mangles took no pains to conceal his aversion.

"In the mean time," continued Ayrton, "either the waters of the Snowy
will have subsided, which will enable us to find a practicable ford, or
we shall have to resort to a boat, and shall have time to construct it.
This, my lord, is the plan which I submit to your approval."

"Very well, Ayrton," replied Glenarvan; "your idea deserves to be
seriously considered. Its greatest objection is the delay it will
cause; but it spares us severe hardships, and perhaps real dangers.
What do you think, friends?"

"Let us hear your advice, major," said Lady Helena. "During the whole
discussion you have contented yourself with listening simply."

"Since you ask my opinion," answered the major, "I will give it to you
very frankly. Ayrton seems to me to have spoken like a wise and prudent
man, and I advocate his proposition."