This answer was rather unexpected; for hitherto MacNabb had always
opposed Ayrton's ideas on this subject. Ayrton, too, was surprised,
and cast a quick glance at the major. Paganel, Lady Helena, and the
sailors had been favorably disposed to the quartermaster's project, and
no longer hesitated after MacNabb's declaration. Glenarvan, therefore,
announced that Ayrton's plan was adopted.

"And now, captain," added he, "do you not think that prudence dictates
this course, and that we should encamp on the banks of the river while
waiting for the means of conveyance?"

"Yes," replied Captain Mangles, "if the messenger succeeds in crossing
the Snowy, which we cannot cross ourselves."

All looked at the quartermaster, who smiled with the air of a man who
knows perfectly well what he is about to do.

"The messenger will not cross the river," said he.

"Ah!" cried Captain Mangles.

"He will strike the Lucknow road, which will take him direct to
Melbourne."

"Two hundred miles on foot!" exclaimed the captain.

"On horseback," continued Ayrton. "There is one good horse left. It
will be a journey of but four days. Add two days for the Duncan to
reach the bay, twenty-four hours for the return to the encampment, and
in a week the messenger will be back again with the crew."

[Sidenote: CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE.]

The major again nodded approvingly at these words, to the great
astonishment of Captain Mangles. But the quartermaster's proposition
had gained all the votes, and the only question was how to execute this
apparently well-conceived plan.

"Now, my friends," said Glenarvan, "it remains only to choose our
messenger. He will have a difficult and dangerous mission; that is
certain. Who is willing to devote himself for his companions, and carry
our instructions to Melbourne?"

Wilson, Mulready, Captain Mangles, Paganel, and Robert offered
themselves immediately. The captain particularly insisted that this
mission should be confided to him; but Ayrton, who had not yet
finished, resumed the conversation, and said:

"If it please your lordship, I will go. I am acquainted with the
country, and have often crossed more difficult regions. I can extricate
myself where another would fail. I therefore claim, for the common
welfare, the right to go to Melbourne. One word will place me on a good
footing with your mate, and in six days I engage to bring the Duncan to
Twofold Bay."

"Well said!" replied Glenarvan. "You are a brave and intelligent man,
Ayrton, and will succeed."

The quartermaster was evidently more capable than any one else of
fulfilling this difficult mission. Captain Mangles raised one final
objection, that Ayrton's presence was necessary to enable them to
find traces of the Brittania or Captain Grant; but the major observed
that they should remain encamped on the banks of the Snowy till the
messenger's return, that it was not proposed to resume the search
without him, and that consequently his absence could be in no way
prejudicial to their interests.

"Well then, Ayrton, start," said Glenarvan. "Make haste, and return to
the encampment by way of Eden."