"Yes," replied the major; "and this disappearance alarms me. I should
prefer to meet them face to face. It is better to encounter a tiger in
the open plain than a serpent in the grass. Let us search these bushes
around the cart."

[Sidenote: UNRAVELINGS.]

The major and captain scoured the surrounding country. But from the
edge of the wood to the banks of the Snowy they did not meet with a
single convict. Ben Joyce's band seemed to have flown away, like a
flock of mischievous birds. This disappearance was too strange to
inspire a perfect security. They therefore resolved to keep on the
watch. The cart, which was a really immovable fortress, became the
centre of the encampment, and two men kept guard, relieving each other
every hour.

Lady Helena and Mary Grant's first care had been to dress Glenarvan's
wound. At the very moment that her husband fell, from Ben Joyce's
bullet, in her terror she had rushed towards him. Then, controlling
her emotion, this courageous woman had assisted Glenarvan to the cart.
Here the shoulder of the wounded man was laid bare, and the major
perceived that the ball had lacerated the flesh, causing no other
injury. Neither bones nor large muscles seemed affected. The wound bled
considerably, but Glenarvan, by moving the fingers of his hand and
fore-arm, encouraged his friends to expect a favorable result. When his
wound was dressed, he no longer desired any attention, and explanations
followed. The travelers, except Wilson and Mulready, who were keeping
guard outside, had taken seats as well as possible in the cart, and the
major was requested to speak.

Before beginning his story, he informed Lady Helena of the escape of
a band of convicts from Perth, their appearance in the province of
Victoria, and their complicity in the railway disaster. He gave her
the number of the _Australian and New Zealand Gazette_ purchased at
Seymour, and added that the police had set a price on the head of Ben
Joyce, a formidable bandit, whom eighteen months of crime had given a
wide-spread notoriety.

But how had MacNabb recognized this Ben Joyce in the quartermaster
Ayrton? Here was the mystery that all wished to solve; and the major
explained.

Since the day of his meeting with Ayrton he had suspected him. Two or
three almost insignificant circumstances, a glance exchanged between
the quartermaster and the farrier at Wimerra River, Ayrton's hesitation
to pass through the towns and villages, his strong wish to order the
Duncan to the coast, the strange death of the animals confided to his
care, and, finally, a want of frankness in his actions,--all these
facts, gradually noticed, had roused the major's suspicions.