However, he could form no direct accusation until the events that had
transpired the preceding night. Gliding between the tall clumps of
shrubbery, as was related in the previous chapter, he approached near
the suspicious shadows that had attracted his attention half a mile
from the encampment. The phosphorescent plants cast their pale rays
through the darkness. Three men were examining some tracks on the
ground, and among them he recognized the farrier of Black Point Station.

"Here they are," said one.

"Yes," replied another, "here is the trefoil of the hoofs again."

"It has been like this since leaving the Wimerra."

"All the horses are dead."

"The poison is not far away."

"There is enough here to settle an entire troop of cavalry. This
gastrolobium is a useful plant."

"Then they were silent," added MacNabb, "and departed. I wanted to know
more: I followed them. The conversation soon began again. 'A cunning
man, this Ben Joyce,' said the farrier; 'a famous quartermaster, with
his invented shipwreck. If his plan succeeds, it will be a stroke of
fortune. Devilish Ayrton! Call him Ben Joyce, for he has well earned
his name.' These rascals then left the wood of gum-trees. I knew what
I wished, and returned to the encampment with the certainty that all
the convicts in Australia are not reformed, in spite of Paganel's
arguments."

"Then," said Glenarvan, whose face was pale with anger, "Ayrton has
brought us here to rob and assassinate us?"

"Yes," replied the major.

"And, since leaving the Wimerra, his band has followed and watched us,
waiting for a favorable opportunity?"

[Sidenote: FROM DEPTH TO DEPTH.]

"Yes."

"But this wretch is not, then, a sailor of the Britannia? He has stolen
his name and contract?"

All eyes were turned towards MacNabb, who must have considered this
matter.

"These," replied he, in his calm voice, "are the proofs that can be
derived from this obscure state of affairs. In my opinion this man's
real name is Ayrton. Ben Joyce is his fighting title. It is certain
that he knows Harry Grant, and has been quartermaster on board the
Britannia. These facts, proved already by the precise details given
by Ayrton, are still further corroborated by the conversation of the
convicts that I have related. Let us not, therefore, be led astray
by vain conjectures, but only be certain that Ayrton is Ben Joyce, a
sailor of the Britannia, now chief of a band of convicts."

The major's explanation was accepted as conclusive.

"Now," replied Glenarvan, "will you tell me how and why Harry Grant's
quartermaster is in Australia?"

"How, I do not know," said MacNabb; "and the police declare they know
no more than I on the subject. Why, it is also impossible for me to
say. Here is a mystery that the future will explain."

"The police do not even know the identity of Ayrton and Ben Joyce,"
said Captain Mangles.

"You are right, John," replied the major; "and such information would
be likely to facilitate their search."