In the mean time Glenarvan had joined Mulready and Wilson, who were on
guard without. A deep silence reigned on the plain lying between the
wood and the river. Heavy clouds covered the vault of the sky. In this
deadened and torpid atmosphere the least sound would have been clearly
transmitted; but nothing was heard. Ben Joyce and his band must have
fled to a considerable distance; for flocks of birds that sported on
the low branches of the trees, several kangaroos peacefully browsing on
the young shoots, and a pair of cassowaries, whose unsuspecting heads
were thrust between the tall bushes, proved that the presence of man
did not disturb these peaceful solitudes.

"You have not seen nor heard anything for an hour?" inquired Glenarvan
of the two sailors.

"Nothing, my lord," replied Wilson. "The convicts must be several miles
away."

"They cannot have been in sufficient force to attack us," added
Mulready. "This Ben Joyce probably intended to recruit some bandits,
like himself, among the bushrangers that wander at the foot of the
Alps."

"Very likely, Mulready," replied Glenarvan. "These rascals are cowards.
They know we are well armed, and are perhaps waiting for darkness to
commence their attack. We must redouble our vigilance at nightfall. If
we could only leave this marshy plain and pursue our journey towards
the coast! But the swollen waters of the river bar our progress. I
would pay its weight in gold for a raft that would transport us to the
other side!"

"Why," said Wilson, "does not your lordship give us the order to
construct this raft? There is plenty of wood."

"No, Wilson," answered Glenarvan; "this Snowy is not a river, it is an
impassable torrent."

[Sidenote: READINESS FOR SERVICE.]

At this moment Captain Mangles, the major, and Paganel joined
Glenarvan. They had been to examine the Snowy. The waters, swollen by
the recent rains, had risen a foot above low-water mark, and formed
an impetuous current. It was impossible to venture upon this roaring
deluge, these rushing floods, broken into a thousand eddies by the
depressions of the river-bed. Captain Mangles declared that the passage
was impracticable.

"But," added he, "we ought not to remain here without making any
attempt. What we wished to do before Ayrton's treason is still more
necessary now."

"What do you say, captain?" asked Glenarvan.

"I say that assistance is needed; and since we cannot go to Twofold
Bay, we must go to Melbourne. One horse is left. Let your lordship give
him to me, and I will go."

"But it is a perilous venture, John," said Glenarvan. "Aside from the
dangers of this journey of two hundred miles across an unknown country,
all the roads may be guarded by Ben Joyce's accomplices."

"I know it, my lord; but I know, too, that our situation cannot be
prolonged. Ayrton only asked eight days' absence to bring back the crew
of the Duncan. But I will return in six days to the banks of the Snowy.
What are your lordship's orders?"