So saying, he mechanically produced his note-book. He tore out a blank
page, and then, with his pencil in his hand, made ready to write.
Glenarvan began to dictate the following instructions:

"Order for Tom Austin to put to sea, and bring the Duncan----"

Paganel had just finished this last word when his eyes fell upon the
number of the _Australian and New Zealand Gazette_ that lay upon the
ground. The paper, being folded, only allowed him to see the two last
syllables of its title. His pencil stopped, and he seemed to completely
forget Glenarvan and his letter.

"Well, Paganel?" said Glenarvan.

"Ah!" continued the geographer, uttering a cry.

"What is the matter?" asked the major.

"Nothing! nothing!" replied Paganel. Then, in a lower tone, he
repeated: "Aland! aland! aland!"

He had risen; he had seized the paper. He shook it, seeking to
repress words ready to escape his lips. Lady Helena, Mary, Robert,
and Glenarvan gazed at him without understanding this inexplicable
agitation. Paganel was like a man whom a sudden frenzy has seized. But
this state of nervous excitation did not last. He gradually grew calm.
The joy that gleamed in his eyes died away, and, resuming his place, he
said, in a quiet tone:

"When you wish, my lord, I am at your disposal."

Glenarvan continued the dictation of his letter, which was distinctly
worded as follows:

"Order for Tom Austin to put to sea, and bring the Duncan to the
eastern coast of Australia."

"Australia?" cried Paganel. "Ah, yes, Australia!"

The letter was now finished, and presented to Glenarvan for his
signature, who, although affected by his recent wound, acquitted
himself as well as possible of this formality. The note was then
folded and sealed, while Paganel, with a hand that still trembled from
excitement, wrote the following address:

"Tom Austin,
                             "Mate of the Yacht Duncan,
                                      "Melbourne."

Thereupon he left the cart, gesticulating, and repeating these
incomprehensible words:

"Aland! aland! Zealand!"

CHAPTER XLII.

FOUR DAYS OF ANGUISH.

The rest of the day passed without any other incident. Everything was
ready for the departure of Mulready, who was happy to give his master
this proof of his devotion.

Paganel had regained his coolness and accustomed manners. His look
still indicated an uneasy state of mind, but he appeared decided to
keep his secret. He had doubtless strong reasons for acting thus,
for the major overheard him repeating these words, like a man who is
struggling with himself:

"No, no! they would not believe me! And, besides what use is it? It is
too late!"