This resolution taken, he occupied himself with giving Mulready the
necessary directions for reaching Melbourne, and, with the map before
him, marked out his course. All the trails of the prairie converged
towards the Lucknow road, which, after extending straight southward to
the coast, suddenly turned in the direction towards Melbourne. It was
simply necessary to follow this, and not attempt to cross the unknown
country. Mulready could not, therefore, go astray. As for dangers, they
lay only a few miles beyond the encampment, where Ben Joyce and his
band were probably lying in wait. This point once passed, Mulready was
sure he could easily distance the convicts and accomplish his important
mission.

At six o'clock supper was eaten in common. A heavy rain was falling.
The tent no longer afforded sufficient shelter, and each had taken
refuge in the cart, which was a safe retreat. The sticky clay held
it in its place as firm as a fort on its foundations. The fire-arms
consisted of seven rifles and seven revolvers, and thus enabled
them to sustain a long siege, for neither ammunition nor provisions
were wanting. In six days the Duncan would anchor in Twofold Bay.
Twenty-four hours after, her crew would reach the opposite bank of
the river; and, if the passage was not then practicable, at least the
convicts would be compelled to retreat before superior forces. But,
first of all, it was necessary that Mulready should succeed in his
enterprise.

At eight o'clock the darkness became intense. It was the time to start.
The horse was brought out. His feet had been muffled; as an additional
precaution, and made no sound. The animal seemed fatigued, but upon
his surefootedness and endurance depended the safety of all. The
major advised the sailor to spare his beast as soon as he was out of
reach of the convicts. It was better to lose half a day and reach his
destination safely. Captain Mangles gave him a revolver, which he had
loaded with the greatest care. Mulready mounted.

[Sidenote: A GLOOMY PROSPECT.]

"Here is the letter which you are to take to Tom Austin," said
Glenarvan. "Let him not lose an hour, but start for Twofold Bay; and,
if he does not find us there, if we have not crossed the river, let him
come to us without delay. Now go, my brave sailor, and may God guide
you!"

Glenarvan, Lady Helena, Mary Grant, all clasped Mulready's hand. This
departure on a dark and stormy night, over a road beset with dangers,
across the unknown stretches of a desert, would have appalled a heart
less courageous than that of the sailor.

"Adieu, my lord," said he, in a calm voice, and soon disappeared by a
path along the edge of the wood.