At that moment the tempest redoubled its violence. The lofty branches
of the trees shook dismally in the darkness. You could hear the fall of
the dry twigs on the drenched earth. More than one giant tree, whose
sap was gone, but which had stood till then, fell during this terrible
hurricane. The wind roared amid the cracking of the trees and mingled
its mournful sounds with the rushing of the river. The heavy clouds
that chased across the sky poured forth masses of mist, while a dismal
darkness increased still more the horrors of the night.

The travelers, after Mulready's departure, ensconced themselves in the
cart. Lady Helena, Mary Grant, Glenarvan, and Paganel occupied the
front compartment, which had been made water-tight. In the rear part
Olbinett, Wilson, and Robert had found a sufficient shelter, while the
major and Captain Mangles were on guard without. This precaution was
necessary, for an attack by the convicts was easy and possible.

These two faithful guardians, therefore, took turns and philosophically
received the blasts that blew sharply in their faces. They strove to
pierce with their eyes the shades so favorable for an ambuscade, for
the ear could detect nothing amid the din of the storm, the roaring of
the wind, the rattling of the branches, the fall of trees, and the
rushing of the impetuous waters.

In the mean time there were several lulls in the fury of the tempest,
the wind ceasing as if to take breath. The river only moaned adown
the motionless reeds and the black curtain of the gum-trees, and the
silence seemed more profound during these momentary rests. The major
and Captain Mangles now listened attentively. During one of these
intervals a sharp whistle reached their ears.

The captain hastened to the major. "Did you hear anything?" asked he.

"Yes," replied MacNabb. "Was it a man or an animal?"

"A man," said the captain.

They both listened again. The mysterious whistle was suddenly repeated,
and something like a report followed it, but almost inaudibly, for the
storm just then broke forth with renewed violence. They could not hear
themselves talk, and took their stations to leeward of the cart.

At this moment the leathern curtains were raised, and Glenarvan joined
his two companions. He likewise had heard the suspicious whistle, and
the report.

"From what direction?" he asked.

"Yonder," said the captain, pointing to the dark line, towards which
Mulready had gone.

"How far?"

"The wind carried it," was the reply. "It must be three miles distant
at least."

"Let us go!" said Glenarvan, throwing his rifle over his shoulder.

"No," interposed the major; "it is a decoy to entice us away from the
cart."

"But if Mulready has fallen beneath the shots of these wretches!"
continued Glenarvan, seizing MacNabb's hand.

"We shall know to-morrow," replied the latter, firmly determined to
prevent Glenarvan from committing a useless imprudence.

[Sidenote: A CRY IN THE NIGHT.]

"You cannot leave the encampment, my lord," said Captain Mangles; "I
will go alone."