MacNabb dressed it skillfully. Whether the weapon had reached the vital
parts, he could not say. A stream of bright-red blood spurted forth,
while the paleness and the swoon of the wounded man proved that he had
been seriously injured. The major accordingly placed upon the opening
of the wound, after first washing it with fresh water, a thick wad of
tinder, and then a few layers of lint, confined by a bandage, and thus
succeeded in stopping the hemorrhage. The patient was then laid on his
side, his head and breast raised, and Lady Helena gave him a refreshing
draught.

At the end of a quarter of an hour, the wounded man, who had been
motionless till then, made a movement. His eyes half opened, his lips
murmured disconnected words, and the major, putting down his ear, heard
him say:

"My lord--the letter--Ben Joyce----"

[Sidenote: A DAY OF DOUBT.]

The major repeated these words, and glanced at his companions. What did
Mulready mean? Ben Joyce had attacked the sailor, but why? Was it not
simply for the purpose of preventing him from reaching the Duncan? This
letter--Glenarvan examined the sailor's pockets. The letter addressed
to Tom Austin was gone.

The night passed in anxiety and anguish. They feared every moment that
the wounded man would die. A burning fever consumed him. Lady Helena
and Mary Grant, as though his sisters, did not leave him; never was
patient better nursed, or by more tender hands.

Day appeared. The rain had ceased. Heavy clouds still rolled along
the vault of the sky, and the earth was strewn with the fragments of
branches. The clay, soaked by floods of water, had yielded; and the
sides of the cart became unsteady, but sank no deeper.

Captain Mangles, Paganel, and Glenarvan took a tour of exploration
around the camp. They traversed the path still marked with blood, but
found no trace of Ben Joyce or his band. They went to the place where
the attack had been made. Here two corpses lay on the ground, shot
by Mulready. One was the farrier of Black Point. His face, which had
mortified, was a horrible sight.

Glenarvan did not pursue his investigations farther, prudence
forbidding. He therefore returned to the cart, much alarmed by the
seriousness of the situation.

"We cannot think of sending another messenger to Melbourne," said he.

"But we must," replied Captain Mangles; "and I will make the attempt,
since my sailor has failed."

"No, John. You have not even a horse to carry you these two hundred
miles."

Indeed, Mulready's horse, the only one that remained, had not
reappeared. Had he fallen beneath the shots of the murderers? Was he
running wild over the desert? Had the convicts captured him?

[Sidenote: RESOLUTION, AND RECOVERY.]