"Whatever happens," continued Glenarvan, "we will separate no more.
Let us wait eight or fifteen days, till the waters of the river resume
their natural level. We will then reach Twofold Bay by short journeys,
and from there send to the Duncan by a surer way the order to sail for
the coast."

"This is the only feasible plan," replied Paganel.

"Well, then, my friends," resumed Glenarvan, "no more separation! A
man risks too much to venture alone across this desert, infested with
bandits. And now may God save our poor sailor and protect ourselves!"

Glenarvan was right in both resolves, first to forbid any single
attempt to cross the plains, and next to wait patiently on the banks
of the river for a practicable passage. Scarcely thirty-five miles
separated them from Delegete, the first frontier town of New South
Wales, where they would find means of reaching Twofold Bay. From this
point he could telegraph his orders to the Duncan.

These measures were wise, but they had been adopted rather tardily. If
they had not sent Mulready with the letter, what misfortunes would have
been avoided, not to speak of the attack upon the sailor!

On arriving at the camp, Glenarvan found his companions less anxious;
they seemed to have regained hope.

"He is better!" cried Robert, running to meet him.

"Mulready?"

"Yes, Edward," replied Lady Helena. "A reaction has taken place. The
major is more encouraged. Our sailor will live."

"Where is MacNabb?" asked Glenarvan.

"With him. Mulready wished to speak with him. We must not disturb them."

Indeed, within an hour the wounded man had rallied from his swoon, and
the fever had diminished. But the sailor's first care, on recovering
memory and speech was to ask for Lord Glenarvan, or, in his absence,
the major MacNabb, seeing him so feeble, would have forbidden all
conversation; but Mulready insisted with such energy that he was forced
to yield. The interview had already lasted some time, and they were
only waiting for the major's report.

Soon the curtains of the cart moved, and he appeared. He joined his
friends at the foot of a gum-tree. His face, usually so calm, betokened
a serious anxiety. When his eyes encountered Lady Helena and the young
girl, they expressed a deep sadness. Glenarvan questioned him, and
learned what the sailor had related.