On leaving the encampment, Mulready had followed one of the paths
indicated by Paganel. He hastened, as much at least as the darkness of
the night permitted him. According to his estimate, he had traveled a
distance of about two miles, when several men--five, he thought--sprang
to his horse's head. The animal reared. Mulready seized his revolver
and fired. He thought that two of his assailants fell. By the flash of
the report, he recognized Ben Joyce, but that was all. He had not time
to fully discharge his weapon. A violent blow was struck upon his right
side, which brought him to the ground. However, he had not yet lost
consciousness. The assassins believed him dead. He felt them search
him. Then a conversation ensued. "I have the letter," said one of them.
"Give it to me," replied Ben Joyce; "and now the Duncan is ours!"

At this point in the story Glenarvan could not restrain a cry.

MacNabb continued:

[Sidenote: A HOPELESS CHANCE.]

"'Now, you others,' said Ben Joyce, 'catch the horse. In two days I
shall be on board the Duncan, and in six at Twofold Bay. There is the
place of meeting. The lord's party will be still fast in the marshes
of the Snowy. Cross the river at Kemple Pier bridge, go to the coast,
and wait for me. I will find means to bring you on board. With the
crew once at sea, and a vessel like the Duncan, we shall be masters
of the Indian Ocean.' 'Hurrah for Ben Joyce!' cried the convicts.
Mulready's horse was then led up, and Ben Joyce disappeared at a gallop
on the Lucknow road, while the band proceeded southeastward to the
Snowy River. Mulready, although severely wounded, had strength to drag
himself within two hundred paces of the encampment, where we picked him
up almost dead. This," added MacNabb, "is Mulready's sad story. You
understand now why the courageous sailor wished so much to speak."

This revelation terrified all.

"Pirates! pirates!" cried Glenarvan. "My crew massacred, my Duncan in
the hands of these bandits!"

"Yes, for Ben Joyce will surprise the vessel," replied the major, "and
then----"

"Well, we must reach the coast before these wretches," said Paganel.

"But how cross the Snowy?" asked Wilson.

"Like them," answered Glenarvan. "They will cross Kemple Pier bridge,
and we will do the same."

"But what will become of Mulready?" inquired Lady Helena.

"We will take turns in carrying him. Shall I give up my defenceless
crew to Ben Joyce's band?"

The plan of crossing Kemple Pier bridge was practicable, but perilous.
The convicts might locate themselves at this point to defend it. It
would be at least thirty against seven! But there are moments when we
do not think of these things, when we must advance at all hazards.

"My lord," said Captain Mangles, at length, "before risking our
last chance, before venturing towards the bridge, it is prudent to
reconnoitre it first. I will undertake this."

"I will accompany you, captain," replied Paganel.

[Sidenote: THE BURNED BRIDGE.]