Unfortunately, this was not possible, either that day or the next. At
seeing himself thus detained, Glenarvan despaired. Lady Helena and the
major tried in vain to pacify and exhort him to patience. Patience!
when, at that moment perhaps, Ben Joyce was going on board the yacht,
when the Duncan was weighing anchor and steaming towards that fatal
coast, to which every hour brought her nearer!

[Sidenote: ALMOST DESPAIRING.]

Captain Mangles felt at heart all Glenarvan's anguish, and, as he
wished to overcome the difficulty at all hazards, he constructed a
canoe in the Australian fashion, with large pieces of the bark of the
gum-trees. These slabs, which were very light, were held together by
wooden cross-bars, and formed a very frail craft.

The captain and the sailor tried the canoe. All that skill, strength,
or courage could do they did. But scarcely were they in the current,
when they capsized and narrowly escaped with their lives. The boat was
drawn into the eddies and disappeared. Captain Mangles and Wilson had
not advanced ten yards into the river, which was swollen by the rains
and melting snows till it was now a mile in breadth.

Two days were wasted in this way. The major and Glenarvan went five
miles up stream without finding a practicable ford. Everywhere was the
same impetuosity, the same tumultuous rush of water; all the southern
slopes of the mountains had poured their liquid torrents into this
single stream. They were forced, therefore, to give up any hope of
saving the Duncan. Five days had passed since Ben Joyce's departure,
the yacht was probably that very moment at the coast, in the hands of
the convicts.

However, this state of things could not last long. Indeed, on the
morning of the third day, Paganel perceived that the waters were
beginning to subside. He reported to Glenarvan the result of his
observations.

"What does it matter now?" replied Glenarvan; "it is too late!"

"That is no reason for prolonging our stay at the encampment," replied
the major.

"Certainly not," said Captain Mangles; "to-morrow, perhaps, it will be
possible to cross."

"But will that save my unfortunate crew?" cried Glenarvan.

"Listen to me, my lord," continued Captain Mangles. "I know Tom Austin.
He was to execute your orders, and start as soon as his departure was
possible. Who knows whether the Duncan was ready, or her injuries
repaired, on the arrival of Ben Joyce at Melbourne? Supposing the
yacht could not put to sea, and suffered one or two days of delay?"

"You are right, John," replied Glenarvan. "We must reach Twofold Bay.
We are only thirty-five miles from Delegete."

"Yes," said Paganel, "and in that town we shall find rapid means of
conveyance. Who knows whether we shall not arrive in time to prevent
this calamity?"

"Let us start!" cried Glenarvan.