Captain Mangles and Wilson at once occupied themselves in constructing
a raft of large dimensions. Experience had proved that pieces of bark
could not resist the violence of the torrent. The captain cut down
several gum-trees, of which he made a rude but substantial raft. It was
a tedious task, and that day ended before the work was completed; but
the next day it was finished.

The waters had now considerably subsided. The torrent had become a
river again, with a rapid current. However, with proper management, the
captain hoped to reach the opposite bank.

At noon they put on board as much provisions as each could carry for
two days' travel. The rest was abandoned with the cart and the tent.
Mulready was well enough to be moved; he was recovering rapidly.

Each took his place on the raft, which was moored to the bank. Captain
Mangles had arranged on the starboard side, and confided to Wilson, a
kind of oar to sustain the raft against the current, and prevent its
drifting. As for himself, he stood at the stern, and steered by means
of a clumsy rudder. Lady Helena and Mary Grant occupied the centre
of the raft near Mulready. Glenarvan, the major, Paganel, and Robert
surrounded them, ready to lend assistance.

"Are we ready, Wilson?" asked Captain Mangles.

"Yes, captain," replied the sailor, seizing his oar with a firm hand.

"Attention, and bear up against the current."

Captain Mangles unmoored the raft, and with one push launched it into
the current of the river. All went well for some time, and Wilson
resisted the leeway. But soon the craft was drawn into the eddies, and
turned round and round, so that neither oar nor rudder could keep it in
a straight course. In spite of their efforts, they were soon placed in
a position where it was impossible to use the oars.

They were forced to be passive; there was no means of preventing this
gyratory motion. They were whirled about with a giddy rapidity, and
sent out of their course. The captain, with pale face and set teeth,
stood and gazed at the eddying water.

However, the raft was entangled in the midst of the river, half a mile
below where they started. The current here was very strong, and, as
it broke the eddies, it lessened the whirling motion. The captain and
Wilson resumed their oars, and succeeded in propelling the craft in an
oblique direction. In this way they approached nearer the left bank,
and were only a few yards distant, when Wilson's oar broke. The raft,
no longer sustained against the current, was carried down stream. The
captain endeavored to prevent it, at the risk of breaking his rudder,
and Wilson with bleeding hands assisted him.