At last they succeeded, and the raft, after a voyage of more than half
an hour, ran upon the steeply-sloping bank. The shock was violent; the
timbers were thrown apart, the ropes broken, and the foaming water came
through. The travelers had only time to cling to the bushes that hung
over the stream. They extricated Mulready and the two ladies, who were
half drenched. In short, everybody was saved; but the greater part of
the provisions and arms, except the major's rifle, were swept away with
the fragments of the raft.

[Sidenote: A WEARY PILGRIMAGE.]

The river was crossed, but the little party were without resources,
thirty-five miles from Delegete, in the midst of these untrodden
deserts. They resolved to start without delay. Mulready saw that he
would cause trouble, and desired to remain behind, even alone, and wait
for aid from Delegete. But Glenarvan refused. He could not reach the
town before three days. If the Duncan had left Melbourne several days
before, what mattered a delay of a few hours?

"No, my friend," said he; "I will not abandon any one. We will make a
litter, and take turns in carrying you."

The litter was made of branches covered with leaves, and upon this
Mulready was placed. Glenarvan wished to be the first to bear the
sailor, and, seizing one end of the litter and Wilson the other, they
started.

What a sad sight! and how disastrously this journey, so well begun,
had ended! They were no longer going in search of Captain Grant.
This continent--where he was not, nor had ever been--threatened to
be fatal to those who were seeking traces of him, and perhaps new
discouragements still awaited them.

The first day passed silently and painfully. Every ten minutes they
took turns in carrying the litter. All the sailor's companions
uncomplainingly imposed upon themselves this duty, which was made still
more arduous by the great heat.

At evening, after accomplishing only five miles, they encamped under
a group of gum-trees. The rest of the provisions that had escaped the
shipwreck furnished the evening meal. They must hereafter rely on the
major's rifle; but he found no opportunity to fire a single shot.
Fortunately, Robert found a nest of bustards, containing a dozen large
eggs, which Olbinett cooked in the hot ashes. In addition to these
embarrassments, their way became very difficult. The sandy plains were
bristling with thorny plants that tore their garments and lacerated
their limbs. The courageous ladies, however, did not complain, but
valiantly advanced, setting the example, and encouraging each other by
a word or a look.

On the third day Mulready traveled part of the way on foot. His wound
had entirely healed. The town of Delegete was only ten miles distant,
and at evening they encamped on the very frontiers of New South Wales.