Glenarvan, Captain Mangles, and Paganel alighted immediately, and
hastened to the custom-house. Here they questioned the employees, and
consulted the latest arrivals. No vessel had entered the bay for a week.

"She may not have started!" cried Glenarvan, who would not despair.
"Perhaps we have arrived before her!"

Captain Mangles shook his head. He knew Tom Austin; his mate would
never have delayed so long to execute an order.

"I will know what this means," said Glenarvan. "Certainty is better
than doubt."

[Sidenote: THE LAST HOPE.]

Fifteen minutes later a telegram was sent to the ship-brokers of
Melbourne, and the travelers repaired to the Victoria Hotel. Not long
after an answer was delivered to Lord Glenarvan. It read as follows:

"Lord Glenarvan,
            Eden, Twofold Bay.

"Duncan started on the 18th instant for some unknown destination."

The dispatch fell from Glenarvan's hands. There was no more doubt! The
honest Scotch yacht, in Ben Joyce's hands, had become a pirate-vessel!

Thus ended their search in Australia, begun under such favorable
auspices. The traces of Captain Grant and his shipwrecked sailors
seemed irrecoverably lost. This failure had cost the lives of an entire
crew. Lord Glenarvan was crushed by the blow, and this courageous
searcher, whom the leagued elements had failed to deter, was now
baffled by the malice of men.

CHAPTER XLIV.

A ROUGH CAPTAIN.

If ever the searchers for Captain Grant had reason to despair of seeing
him again, was it not when every hope forsook them at once? To what
part of the world should they venture a new expedition? how explore
unknown countries? The Duncan was no longer in their possession, and
they could not be immediately reconciled to their misfortune. The
undertaking of these generous Scots had, therefore, failed. Failure!
sad word, that finds no echo in a valiant soul; and yet, amid all
the changes of destiny, Glenarvan was forced to acknowledge his
powerlessness to pursue this work of mercy.

Mary Grant, in this situation, no longer had the courage to utter the
name of her father. She suppressed her own anguish by thinking of the
unfortunate crew. Controlling herself in the presence of her friend, it
was she who consoled Lady Helena, from whom she had received so many
consolations. The young girl was the first to speak of their return to
Scotland. At seeing her so courageous and resigned, Captain Mangles
admired her, and would have spoken a final word in favor of Captain
Grant, if Mary had not stopped him with a look and then said:

"No, Mr. John; let us think of those who have sacrificed themselves.
Lord Glenarvan must return to England."

"You are right, Miss Mary," replied he; "he must. The English
authorities must also be informed of the fate of the Duncan. But do not
give up all hope. The search that we have begun I would continue alone,
rather than abandon. I will find Captain Grant, or succumb to the task!"