This was a solemn compact which John Mangles thus made. Mary accepted
it, and gave her hand to the young captain, as if to ratify this
treaty. On the part of the latter it was a devotion of his entire life;
on the part of the former, an unchanging gratitude.

The time of their departure was now definitely decided. They resolved
to proceed to Melbourne without delay. The next day Captain Mangles
went to inquire about vessels that were upon the point of sailing. He
expected to find frequent communication between Eden and Melbourne, but
he was disappointed. The vessels were few; two or three anchored in
Twofold Bay composed the entire fleet of the place. There were none for
Melbourne, Sydney, or Point-de-Galle.

In this state of affairs, what was to be done? Wait for a ship? They
might be delayed a long time, for Twofold Bay is little frequented.
After some deliberation, Glenarvan was about to decide upon reaching
Sydney by the coast, when Paganel made a proposal that was unexpected
to every one.

The geographer had just returned from Twofold Bay. He knew that there
were no means of transportation to Sydney or Melbourne; but, of the
three vessels anchored in the roadstead, one was preparing to start
for Auckland, the capital of Ika-na-Maoui, the northern island of New
Zealand. Thither Paganel proposed to go by the bark in question, and
from Auckland it would be easy to return to England by the steamers of
the English company.

This proposition was taken into serious consideration, although Paganel
did not enter into those extended arguments of which he was usually so
lavish. He confined himself to stating the fact, and added that the
voyage would not last more than five or six days.

Captain Mangles advocated Paganel's plan. He thought it should be
adopted, since they could not wait for the uncertain arrival of other
vessels. But, before deciding, he judged it advisable to visit the ship
in question. Accordingly, he, with Glenarvan, the major, Paganel, and
Robert, took a boat, and pulled out to where it was anchored.

It was a brig of two hundred and fifty tons, called the Macquarie,
which traded between the different ports of Australia and New Zealand.
The captain, or rather the "master," received his visitors very
gruffly. They saw that they had to deal with an uneducated man, whose
manners were not different from those of the five sailors of his
crew. A coarse red face, big hands, a flat nose, a blinded eye, lips
blackened by his pipe, and a specially brutish appearance, made Will
Halley a very forbidding character. But they had no choice, and for a
voyage of a few days there was no need to be very particular.

"What do you want?" asked Will Halley, as the strangers reached the
deck of his vessel.

"The captain," replied Mangles.

[Sidenote: A BUSINESS INTERVIEW.]

"I am he," said Halley. "What then?"

"The Macquarie is loading for Auckland?"

"Yes. What of it?"

"What does she carry?"

"Anything that is bought or sold."