Wilson went on board first, charged with arranging the passengers'
quarters. Under his vigorous use of the brush and broom the aspect
of things was greatly changed. Will Halley shrugged his shoulders,
but allowed the sailor to do as he pleased. As for Glenarvan and his
friends, he scarcely noticed them; he did not even know their names,
nor did he care to. This increase of cargo was worth fifty pounds to
him, but he valued it less than the two hundred tons of tanned leather
with which his hold was crowded,--the skins first, and the passengers
next. He was a real trader; and by his nautical ability he passed for a
good navigator of these seas, rendered so very dangerous by the coral
reefs.

During the afternoon, Glenarvan wished to visit once more the supposed
place of the shipwreck. Ayrton had certainly been the quartermaster of
the Britannia, and the vessel might really have been lost on that part
of the coast. And there, at all events, the Duncan had fallen into the
hands of the convicts. Had there been a fight? Perhaps they would find
on the beach traces of a struggle. If the crew had perished in the
waves, would not the bodies have been cast ashore?

Glenarvan, accompanied by his faithful captain, undertook this
examination. The landlord of Victoria Hotel furnished them with two
horses, and they set out. But it was a sad journey. They rode in
silence. The same thoughts, the same anxieties, tortured the mind of
each. They gazed at the rocks worn by the sea. They had no need to
question or answer; no sign of the Duncan could be found,--the whole
coast was bare.

Captain Mangles, however, found on the margin of the shore evident
signs of an encampment, the remains of fires recently kindled beneath
the few trees. Had a wandering tribe of natives passed there within
a few days? No, for an object struck Glenarvan's eye, which proved
incontestably that the convicts had visited that part of the coast.

[Sidenote: THE LAST NIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.]

It was a gray and yellow jacket, worn and patched, left at the foot
of a tree. It bore a number and badge of the Perth penitentiary. The
convict was no longer there, but his cast-off garment betrayed him.

"You see, John," said Glenarvan, "the convicts have been here! And our
poor comrades of the Duncan----"

"Yes," replied the captain, in a low voice, "they have certainly been
landed, and have perished!"

"The wretches!" cried Glenarvan. "If they ever fall into my hands, I
will avenge my crew!"

Grief and exposure had hardened Glenarvan's features. For several
moments he gazed at the vast expanse of water, seeking perhaps to
discern some ship in the dim distance. Then his eyes relaxed their
fierceness, he regained his composure, and, without adding a word or
making a sign, took the road to Eden.