Only one duty remained to be fulfilled,--to inform the constable of
the events that had just transpired, which was done the same evening.
The magistrate, Thomas Banks, could scarcely conceal his satisfaction
at making out the official record. He was simply delighted at the
departure of Ben Joyce and his band. The whole village shared his joy.
The convicts had left Australia because of a new crime; but, at all
events, they had gone. This important news was immediately telegraphed
to the authorities of Melbourne and Sydney.

Having accomplished his object, Glenarvan returned to the Victoria
Hotel. The travelers passed this last evening in Australia in sadness.
Their thoughts wandered over this country, so fertile in misfortunes.
They recalled the hopes they had reasonably conceived at Cape
Bernouilli, now so cruelly disappointed at Twofold Bay.

Paganel was a prey to a feverish agitation. Captain Mangles, who had
watched him since the incident at Snowy River, many times pressed him
with questions which Paganel did not answer. But that evening, as he
went with him to his chamber, the captain asked him why he was so
nervous.

"My friend," replied Paganel evasively, "I am no more nervous than
usual."

"Mr. Paganel, you have a secret that troubles you."

"Well, as you will," cried the geographer; "it is stronger than I."

"What is stronger than you?"

"My joy on the one hand, and my despair on the other."

"You are joyful and despairing at the same time?"

"Yes; joyful and despairing at visiting New Zealand."

"Have you any news?" asked Captain Mangles. "Have you discovered the
lost trail?"

"No, friend. _People never return from New Zealand!_ But yet--well, you
know human nature. As long as we breathe we can hope; and my motto is
'_dum spiro, spero_,' which is the best in the world."

CHAPTER XLV.

THE WRECK OF THE MACQUARIE.

The next day the travelers were installed on board the Macquarie.
Will Halley had not offered the ladies his cabin, which was not to be
regretted, as the lair was only fit for the brute.

At noon they made ready to take the flood-tide. The anchor was weighed.
A moderate breeze blew from the southwest. The sails were gradually
set, but the five men worked slowly. At last, incited by the oaths
of the skipper, they accomplished their task. But in spite of her
spread of canvas the brig scarcely advanced. Yet, however poorly she
sailed, in five or six days they hoped to reach the harbor of Auckland.
At seven o'clock in the evening they lost sight of the shores of
Australia, and the lighthouse at Eden. The sea was rough, and the
vessel labored heavily in the trough of the waves. The passengers found
their situation very uncomfortable; but, as they could not remain on
deck, they were forced to submit to confinement.