That evening conversation very naturally turned upon the land to which
they were now sailing, its discovery and colonization; and just as
naturally all turned to Paganel as to a bookcase, for some information
thereon. It was very readily accessible, although evidently to the
geographer's mind there was something of a painful character connected
with the name, the impression, and the very thoughts of New Zealand and
its Maori inhabitants.

"Monsieur Paganel," said Lady Helena, "have your friends, the English,
been the only ones to search out this island?"

"By no means, madam," was the prompt reply. "On the contrary, they
have come second, nay, third, in the race; only," and he looked half
roguishly and half maliciously, "_they stayed when they came_."

And then he told them of its first discovery by Abel Tasman, the Dutch
navigator, in 1642; that, when first he landed, there seemed to be
amicable feelings expressed by the islanders toward himself, a number
of them coming back to his ship, and being apparently well pleased to
cultivate intercourse. But on the next day, as he sent his boat to
find good anchorage nearer to the shore, seven canoes of the islanders
attacked it most violently and suddenly, causing it to capsize, and so
vigorously assailing its occupants with their pikes that it was with
difficulty any of them were able to swim back to their ship, leaving
those of their companions who were not drowned to be butchered by the
natives.

[Sidenote: A SADDENING HISTORY.]

Of course he did not forget to mention that a French navigator,
Surville by name, was the next to visit the shores, and that his
visit likewise was the cause of bloodshed and misery. But he gave
them a more lengthy and extended narrative of Captain Cook's voyages,
which were the most important in their results as well as the most
interesting and tragic in many of their incidents. It was on the 6th
of October, 1769, that this navigator first landed on the shores which
he visited twice afterwards, and each time added greatly to the stock
of previous knowledge concerning these islands, their productions, and
their inhabitants. By him it was first ascertained that cannibalism was
practiced by some, if not all, of the tribes at that time; and it was
very evident, from the manner of Paganel's narration, that hereabout
lay the extremely sensitive point of the worthy geographer's fears and
forebodings. However, he was not deterred from rehearsing how one and
another not merely visited, but began to settle, on the island, so that
in the treaty of 1814 it was formally recognized as belonging to Great
Britain, and twenty years after was important enough to have a separate
official and governmental establishment.