Paganel also told, at great length, the tales of many of the sad
incidents which from time to time have marked even the commercial
intercourse between the European and the Maori; as, for instance, the
sad tale of conflict and bloodshed connected with the death of Captain
Marion, a French navigator, in 1772. He had landed near the spot where
Surville had ill-treated some of the natives and traitorously seized
a son of the chief, Takouri, who yet appeared to welcome this next
French visitant, though remembering none the less the terrible duty of
vengeance which is felt by the Maori to be so binding.

For a long time the cloak of friendship was worn by the natives, the
more thoroughly to lull the suspicions of the whites, and to entice a
larger number on shore; in which endeavor they succeeded only too well.
The French ships being greatly out of repair, Marion was induced to
fell timber at some distance in the interior, and to establish in this
occupation a great number of his men, going frequently to them, and
remaining with them and the apparently friendly chiefs. On one of these
occasions the Maoris fulfilled their revengeful project with a terrible
satisfaction to themselves. Only one man, of all those in the interior,
managed to escape, the commander himself falling a prey to their
vengeance. They then endeavored to kill the second in command, who,
with several others, was nearer to the shore. These, of course, at once
started for their boats; breathless, they reached them, hotly pursued
to the water's edge by the insatiate savages. Then, safe themselves,
the French marksmen picked off the chief, and the previous exultation
of the aborigines was, even in the hour of their triumph, turned to
lamentation, coupled with wonder at the terrible power of the white
man's fire-barrel.

All this and much more did the geographer narrate; but it must be
confessed that he neither spoke, nor did they listen, with the
complacency evinced in his previous tales. Besides, their surroundings
were at the time uncomfortable, and the first prognostications of a
speedy passage were not likely to be verified.

Unfortunately, this painful voyage was prolonged. Six days after her
departure, the Macquarie had not descried the shores of Auckland.
The wind was fair, however, and still blew from the southwest; but
nevertheless the brig did not make much headway. The sea was rough, the
rigging creaked, the ribs cracked, and the vessel rode the waves with
difficulty.

Fortunately, Will Halley, like a man who was in no hurry, did not crowd
on sail, or his masts would inevitably have snapped. Captain Mangles
hoped, therefore, that this clumsy craft would reach its destination
in safety; still, he was pained to see his companions on board in such
miserable quarters.

[Sidenote: PERSISTENT GRIEF.]