But neither Lady Helena nor Mary Grant complained, although the
continual rain kept them confined, and the want of air and rolling of
the ship seriously incommoded them. Their friends sought to divert
them, and Paganel strove to while the time with his stories, but did
not succeed so well as previously.

Of all the passengers, the one most to be pitied was Lord Glenarvan.
They rarely saw him below; he could not keep still. His nervous and
excitable nature would not submit to an imprisonment between four
wooden walls. Day and night, heedless of the torrents of rain and the
dashing spray of the sea, he remained on deck, sometimes bending over
the rail, sometimes pacing up and down with feverish agitation. His
eyes gazed continually into space, and, during the brief lulls, his
glass persistently surveyed the horizon. He seemed to question the mute
waves; the mist that veiled the sky, the masses of vapor, he would have
penetrated with a glance; he could not be resigned, and his countenance
betokened an acute grief. The power and hopefulness of this man,
hitherto so energetic and courageous, had suddenly failed.

Captain Mangles seldom left him, but at his side endured the severity
of the storm. That day, Glenarvan, wherever there was an opening in
the mist, scanned the horizon with the utmost persistency. The young
captain approached him.

"Is your lordship looking for land?" he asked.

Glenarvan shook his head.

"It will yet be some time before we leave the brig. We ought to have
sighted Auckland light thirty-six hours ago."

Glenarvan did not answer. He still gazed, and for a moment his glass
was pointed towards the horizon to windward of the vessel.

"The land is not on that side," said Captain Mangles. "Your lordship
should look towards the starboard."

"Why, John?" replied Glenarvan. "It is not the land that I am seeking."

"What is it, my lord?"

[Sidenote: A COURAGEOUS CAPTAIN.]

"My yacht, my Duncan! She must be here, in these regions, plowing
these seas, in that dreadful employment of a pirate. She is here, I
tell you, John, on this course between Australia and New Zealand! I
have a presentiment that we shall meet her!"

"God preserve us from such a meeting, my lord!"

"Why, John?"

"Your lordship forgets our situation. What could we do on this brig, if
the Duncan should give us chase? We could not escape."

"Escape, John?"

"Yes, my lord. We should try in vain. We should be captured, at the
mercy of the wretches. Ben Joyce has shown that he does not hesitate at
a crime. I should sell my life dearly. We would defend ourselves to the
last extremity. Well! But, then, think of Lady Helena and Mary Grant!"

"Poor women!" murmured Glenarvan. "John, my heart is broken, and
sometimes I feel as if despair had invaded it. It seems to me as if
new calamities awaited us, as if Heaven had decreed against us! I am
afraid!"

"You, my lord?"