"Not for myself, John, but for those whom I love, and whom you love
also."

"Take courage, my lord," replied the young captain. "We need no longer
fear. The Macquarie is a poor sailer, but still she sails. Will Halley
is a brutish creature; but I am here, and if the approach to the land
seems to me dangerous I shall take the ship to sea again. Therefore
from this quarter there is little or no danger. But as for meeting the
Duncan, God preserve us, and enable us to escape!"

Captain Mangles was right. To encounter the Duncan would be fatal to
the Macquarie, and this misfortune was to be feared in these retired
seas, where pirates could roam without danger. However, that day, at
least, the Duncan did not appear, and the sixth night since their
departure from Twofold Bay arrived without Captain Mangles's fears
being realized.

But that night was destined to be one of terror. Darkness set in almost
instantaneously towards evening; the sky was very threatening. Even
Will Halley, whose sense of danger was superior to the brutishness of
intoxication, was startled by these warning signs. He left his cabin,
rubbing his eyes and shaking his great red head. Then he drew a long
breath, and examined the masts. The wind was fresh, and was blowing
strong towards the New Zealand coast.

Captain Halley summoned his men, with many oaths, and ordered them to
reef the top-sails. Captain Mangles approved in silence. He had given
up remonstrating with this coarse seaman; but neither he nor Glenarvan
left the deck.

Two hours passed. The sea grew more tempestuous, and the vessel
received such severe shocks that it seemed as if her keel were grating
on the sand. There was no unusual roughness, but yet this clumsy craft
labored heavily, and the deck was deluged by the huge waves. The boat
that hung in the larboard davits was swept overboard by a rising billow.

Captain Mangles could not help being anxious. Any other vessel would
have mocked these surges; but with this heavy hulk they might well fear
foundering, for the deck was flooded with every plunge, and the masses
of water, not finding sufficient outlet by the scuppers, might submerge
the ship. It would have been wise, as a preparation for any emergency,
to cut away the waistcloth to facilitate the egress of the water; but
Will Halley refused to take this precaution.

[Sidenote: A NAUTICAL COUP D'ETAT.]

However, a greater danger threatened the Macquarie, and probably there
was no longer time to prevent it. About half-past eleven Captain
Mangles and Wilson, who were standing on the leeward side, were
startled by an unusual sound. Their nautical instincts were roused,
and the captain seized the sailor's hand.

"The surf!" said he.

"Yes," replied Wilson. "The sea is breaking on the reefs."

"Not more than two cable-lengths distant."

"Not more! The shore is here!"

Captain Mangles leaned over the railing, gazed at the dark waves, and
cried:

"The sounding-lead, Wilson!"