The skipper, who was in the forecastle, did not seem to suspect his
situation. Wilson grasped the sounding-line, which lay coiled in its
pail, and rushed into the port-shrouds. He cast the lead; the rope
slipped between his fingers; at the third knot it stopped.

"Three fathoms!" cried Wilson.

"We are on the breakers!" shouted the sober captain to the stupefied
one.

Whether the former saw Halley shrug his shoulders or not is of little
consequence. At all events, he rushed towards the wheel and crowded
the helm hard alee, while Wilson, letting go the line, hauled upon the
top-sail yard-arms to luff the ship. The sailor who was steering, and
had been forcibly pushed aside, did not at all understand this sudden
attack.

"To the port-yards! let loose the sails!" cried the young captain,
managing so as to escape the reefs.

For half a minute, the starboard side of the brig grazed the rocks,
and, in spite of the darkness, John perceived a roaring line of
breakers that foamed a few yards from the ship.

[Sidenote: VERY CRITICAL CIRCUMSTANCES.]

At this moment Will Halley, becoming conscious of the imminent danger,
lost his presence of mind. His sailors, who were scarcely sober,
could not comprehend his orders. Moreover, his incoherent words and
contradictory commands showed that this stupid drunkard's coolness
had failed. He was surprised by the nearness of the land, which was
only eight miles off, when he thought it thirty or forty. The currents
had taken him unawares, and thrown him out of his ordinary course.

However, Captain Mangles's prompt management had rescued the brig from
her peril; but he did not know his position. Perhaps he was inclosed by
a chain of reefs. The wind blew fresh from the east, and at every pitch
they might strike bottom.

The roar of the surf was soon redoubled, and it was necessary to luff
still more. John crowded the helm down and braced farther to leeward.
The breakers multiplied beneath the prow of the ship, and they were
obliged to tack so as to put to sea. Would this manoeuvre succeed with
such an unsteady vessel, and under such reduced sail? It was uncertain,
but as their only chance they must venture it.

"Hard alee!" cried Captain Mangles to Wilson.

The Macquarie began to approach the new line of reefs. Soon the
water foamed above the submerged rocks. It was a moment of torturing
suspense. The spray glittered on the crests of the waves. You would
have thought a phosphorescent glow had suddenly illumined the water.
Wilson and Mulready forced down the wheel with their whole weight.