Suddenly a shock was felt. The vessel had struck upon a rock. The
bob-stays broke, and nearly overthrew the mainmast. Could they come
about without any other injury? No; for all at once there was a calm,
and the ship veered to windward again, and her movements suddenly
ceased. A lofty wave seized and bore her forward towards the reefs,
while she rolled heavily. The mainmast went by the board with all its
rigging, the brig heaved twice and was motionless, leaning over to
starboard. The pump-lights were shattered in pieces, and the passengers
rushed to the deck; but the waves were sweeping it from one end to
the other, and they could not remain without danger. Captain Mangles,
knowing that the ship was firmly imbedded in the sand, besought them
for their own sakes to go below again.

"The truth, John?" asked Glenarvan, faintly.

"The truth, my lord, is that we shall not founder. As for being
destroyed by the sea, that is another question; but we have time to
take counsel."

"Is it midnight?"

"Yes, my lord, and we must wait for daylight."

"Can we not put to sea in the boat?"

"In this storm and darkness it is impossible. And, moreover, where
should we strike land?"

"Well, John, let us remain here till morning."

Meantime Will Halley was running about the deck like a madman. His
sailors, who had recovered from their stupor, stove in a brandy-barrel
and began to drink. Mangles foresaw that their drunkenness would lead
to terrible scenes. The captain could not be relied upon to restrain
them; the miserable man tore his hair and wrung his hands; he thought
only of his cargo, which was not insured.

"I am ruined! I am lost!" cried he, running to and fro.

Captain Mangles scarcely thought of consoling him. He armed his
companions, and all stood ready to repel the sailors, who were filling
themselves with brandy, and cursing frightfully.

"The first of these wretches who approaches," said the major calmly, "I
will shoot like a dog."

The sailors doubtless saw that the passengers were determined to keep
them at bay, for, after a few attempts at plunder, they disappeared.
Captain Mangles paid no more attention to these drunken men, but waited
impatiently for day.

[Sidenote: SLEEPING IN A SAND-CRADLE.]

The ship was now absolutely immovable. The sea grew gradually calm,
and the wind subsided. The hull could, therefore, hold out a few hours
longer. At sunrise they would examine the shore. If it seemed easy to
land, the yawl, now the only boat on board, would serve to transport
the crew and passengers. It would require three trips, at least, to
accomplish this, for there was room for only four persons. As for the
gig, it had been swept overboard, during the storm, as before mentioned.