While reflecting on the dangers of his situation, the young captain,
leaning against the binnacle, listened to the roar of the surf. He
strove to pierce the dense darkness, and estimate how far he was from
that desired yet dreaded coast. Breakers are frequently heard several
leagues at sea. Could the frail cutter weather so long a voyage in her
present shattered state?

While he was thinking thus, and longing for a little light in the
gloomy sky, the ladies, relying upon his words, were reposing in their
berths. The steadiness of the brig secured them several hours of rest.
Glenarvan and the others, no longer hearing the cries of the drunken
crew, refreshed themselves also by a hasty sleep, and, early in the
morning, deep silence reigned on board this vessel, which had sunk to
rest, as it were, upon her bed of sand.

About four o'clock the first light appeared in the east. The clouds
were delicately tinged by the pale rays of the dawn. Captain Mangles
came on deck. Along the horizon extended a curtain of mist. A few
vague outlines floated in the vapors of the morning. A gentle swell
still agitated the sea, and the outer waves were lost in the dense,
motionless fog.

He waited. The light gradually brightened, and the horizon glowed with
crimson hues. The misty curtain gradually enveloped the vast vault of
the firmament. Black rocks emerged from the water. Then, a line was
defined along a border of foam, and a luminous point kindled like a
lighthouse at the summit of a peak against the still invisible disk of
the rising sun.

"Land!" cried Captain Mangles.

His companions, awakened by his voice, rushed on deck, and gazed in
silence at the coast that was seen on the horizon. Whether hospitable
or fatal, it was to be their place of refuge.

"Where is that Halley?" asked Glenarvan.

"I do not know, my lord," replied Captain Mangles.

"And his sailors?"

"Disappeared, like himself."

"And like himself, doubtless, drunk," added MacNabb.

"Let us search for them," said Glenarvan; "we cannot abandon them on
this vessel."

Mulready and Wilson went down to the bunks in the forecastle. The place
was empty. They then visited between-decks, and the hold, but found
neither Halley nor his sailors.

"What! nobody?" said Glenarvan.

"Have they fallen into the sea?" asked Paganel.

"Anything is possible," replied Captain Mangles, who cared little for
their disappearance.

Then, turning towards the stern, he said,--

"To the boat!"

Wilson and Mulready followed, to assist in lowering it.

The yawl was gone!

CHAPTER XLVI.

VAIN EFFORTS.

Will Halley and his crew, taking advantage of the night and the
passengers' sleep, had fled with the only boat left. They could not
doubt it. This captain, who was in duty bound to be the last on board,
had been the first to leave.

[Sidenote: AN ADVANTAGEOUS LOSS.]

"The rascals have fled," said Captain Mangles. "Well, so much the
better, my lord. We are spared so many disagreeable scenes."