"I agree with you," replied Glenarvan. "Besides, there is a better
captain on board, yourself, and courageous seamen, your companions.
Command us; we are ready to obey you."

All endorsed Glenarvan's words, and, ranged along the deck, they stood
ready for the young captain's orders.

"What is to be done?" asked Glenarvan.

John cast a glance over the ocean, looked at the shattered masts of the
brig, and, after a few moments' reflection, said:

"We have two ways, my lord, of extricating ourselves from this
situation: either to raise the vessel and put her to sea, or reach the
coast on a raft, which can be easily constructed."

"If the vessel can be raised, let us raise it," replied Glenarvan.
"That is the best plan, is it not?"

"Yes, my lord; for, once ashore, what would become of us without means
of transport?"

"Let us avoid the coast," added Paganel. "We must beware of New
Zealand."

"All the more so, as we have gone considerably astray," continued
Captain Mangles. "Halley's carelessness has carried us to the south,
that is evident. At noon I will take an observation; and if, as I
presume, we are below Auckland, I will try to sail the Macquarie up
along the coast."

"But the injuries of the brig?" inquired Lady Helena.

"I do not think they are serious, madam," replied Captain Mangles. "I
shall rig a jury-mast at the bows; and we shall sail slowly, it is
true, but still we shall go where we wish. If, unfortunately, the hull
is stove in, or if the ship cannot be extricated, we must gain the
coast, and travel by land to Auckland."

"Let us examine the state of the vessel, then," said the major. "This
is of the first importance."

Glenarvan, the captain, and Mulready opened the main scuttle, and went
down into the hold. About two hundred tons of tanned hides were there,
very badly stowed away; but they could draw them aside without much
difficulty, by means of the main-stay tackling, and they at once threw
overboard part of this ballast so as to lighten the ship.

After three hours of hard labor, they could see the bottom timbers. Two
seams in the larboard planking had sprung open as far up as the channel
wales. As the Macquarie lay over on her starboard beams, her opposite
side was raised, and the defective seams were out of water. Wilson
hastened, therefore, to tighten the joints with oakum, over which he
carefully nailed a copper plate. On sounding they found less than two
feet of water in the hold, which the pumps could easily exhaust, and
thus relieve the ship. After his examination of the hull, the captain
perceived that it had been little injured in stranding. It was probable
that a part of the false keel would remain in the sand, but they could
pass over it.