Wilson, after inspecting the interior of the brig, dived, in order to
determine her position on the reef. The Macquarie was turned towards
the northwest, and lay on a very shelving, slimy sand-bar. The lower
end of her prow and two-thirds of her keel were deeply imbedded in
the sand. The rest, as far as the stern, floated where the water was
five fathoms deep. The rudder was not, therefore, confined, but worked
freely. The captain considered it useless to lighten her, as he hoped
they would be ready to make use of her at the earliest opportunity.
The tides of the Pacific are not very strong, but he relied upon their
influence to float the brig, which had stranded an hour before high
water. The only point was to extricate her, which would be a long and
painful task.

[Sidenote: LABOR FOR THE COMMON WEAL.]

"To work!" cried the captain.

His improvised sailors were ready. He ordered them to reef the sails.
The major, Robert, and Paganel, under Wilson's direction, climbed
the maintop. The top-sail, swelled by the wind, would have prevented
the extrication of the ship, and it was necessary to reef it, which
was done as well as possible. At last, after much labor, severe to
unaccustomed hands, the maintop-gallant was taken down. Young Robert,
nimble as a cat, and bold as a cabin-boy, had rendered important
services in this difficult operation.

It was now advisable to cast one anchor, perhaps two, at the stern of
the vessel in the line of the keel. The effect of this would be to
haul the Macquarie around into deep water. There is no difficulty in
doing this when you have a boat, but here all the boats were gone, and
something else must be supplied.

Glenarvan was familiar enough with the sea to understand the necessity
of these arrangements. One anchor was to be cast to prevent the ship
from stranding at low water.

"But what shall we do without a boat?" asked he of the captain.

"We will use the remains of the mizen-mast and the empty casks," was
the reply. "It will be a difficult, but not impossible task, for the
Macquarie's anchors are small. Once cast however, if they do not drag,
I shall be encouraged."

"Very well, let us lose no time."

To accomplish their object, all were summoned on deck; each took
part in the work. The rigging that still confined the mizen-mast was
cut away, so that the maintop could be easily withdrawn. Out of this
platform Captain Mangles designed to make a raft. He supported it by
means of empty casks, and rendered it capable of carrying the anchors.
A rudder was fastened to it, which enabled them to steer the concern.