This labor was half accomplished when the sun neared the meridian.
The captain left Glenarvan to follow out his instructions, and turned
his attention to determining his position, which was very important.
Fortunately, he had found in Will Halley's cabin a Nautical Almanac and
a sextant, with which he was able to take an observation. By consulting
the map Paganel had bought at Eden, he saw that they had been wrecked
at the mouth of Aotea Bay, above Cahua Point, on the shores of the
province of Auckland. As the city was on the thirty-seventh parallel,
the Macquarie had been carried a considerable distance out of her
course. It was, therefore, necessary to sail northward to reach the
capital of New Zealand.

"A journey of not more than twenty-five miles," said Glenarvan. "It is
nothing."

"What is nothing at sea will be long and difficult on land," replied
Paganel.

"Well, then," said Captain Mangles, "let us do all in our power to
float the Macquarie."

This question being settled, their labors were resumed. It was high
water, but they could not take advantage of it, since the anchors were
not yet moored. Yet the captain watched the ship with some anxiety.
Would she float with the tide? This point would soon be decided.

They waited. Several cracks were heard, caused either by a rising or
starting of the keel. Great reliance had been placed upon the tide, but
the brig did not stir.

The work was continued, and the raft was soon ready. The small anchor
was put on board, and the captain and Wilson embarked, after mooring
a small cable at the stern. The ebb-tide made them drift, and they
therefore anchored, half a cable's length distant, in ten fathoms of
water. The bottom afforded a firm hold.

[Sidenote: A MIDNIGHT CONCLAVE.]

The great anchor now remained. They lowered it with difficulty,
transported it on the raft, and soon it was moored behind the other;
the captain and his men returning to the vessel, and waiting for high
water, which would be early in the morning. It was now six o'clock
in the evening. The young captain complimented his sailors, and told
Paganel that, with the aid of courage and good discipline, he might one
day become quartermaster.

Meantime, Mr. Olbinett, after assisting in different operations, had
returned to the kitchen, and prepared a very comforting and seasonable
repast. The crew were tempted by a keen appetite, which was abundantly
satisfied, and each felt himself invigorated for fresh exertions.

After dinner, Captain Mangles took a final precaution to insure the
success of his experiment. He threw overboard a great part of the
merchandise to lighten the brig; but the remainder of the ballast, the
heavy spars, the spare yards, and a few tons of pig-iron, were carried
to the stern, to aid by their weight in liberating the keel. Wilson and
Mulready likewise rolled to the same place a number of casks filled
with water. Midnight arrived before these labors were completed.