But at this hour the breeze subsided, and only a few capricious
ripples stirred the surface of the water. Looking towards the horizon,
the captain observed that the wind was changing from southwest to
northwest. A sailor could not be mistaken in the peculiar arrangement
and color of the clouds. He accordingly informed Glenarvan of these
indications, and proposed to defer their work till the next day.

[Sidenote: "A TIDE IN THE AFFAIRS OF MEN."]

"And these are my reasons," said he. "First, we are very much fatigued,
and all our strength is necessary to free the vessel. Then, when this
is accomplished, how can we sail among the dangerous breakers, and
in such profound darkness? Moreover, another reason induces me to
wait. The wind promises to aid us, and I desire to profit by it, and
am in hopes that it will drift the old hull out when the tide raises
her. To-morrow, if I am not mistaken, the breeze will blow from the
northwest. We will set the main-sails, and they will help to raise
the brig."

These reasons were decisive. Glenarvan and Paganel, the most impatient
on board, yielded, and the work was suspended.

The night passed favorably, and day appeared. Their captain's
predictions were realized. The wind blew from the northwest, and
continued to freshen. The crew were summoned. It was nine o'clock. Four
hours were still to elapse before it would be high water, and that time
was not lost. The laborers renewed their efforts with very good success.

Meantime the tide rose. The surface of the sea was agitated into
ripples, and the points of the rocks gradually disappeared, like
marine animals returning to their native element. The time for the
final attempt approached. A feverish impatience thrilled all minds.
No one spoke. Each gazed at the captain, and awaited his orders. He
was leaning over the stern-railing, watching the water, and casting an
uneasy glance towards the cables.

At last the tide reached its height. The experiment must now be made
without delay. The main-sails were set, and the mast was bent with the
force of the wind.

"To the windlass!" cried the captain.

Glenarvan, Mulready, and Robert on one side, and Paganel, the major,
and Olbinett on the other, bore down upon the handles that moved the
machine. At the same time the captain and Wilson added their efforts to
those of their companions.

"Down! down!" cried the young captain; "all together!"

The cables were stretched taut under the powerful action of the
windlass. The anchors held fast, and did not drag. But they must be
quick, for high tide lasts only a few moments, and the water would not
be long in lowering.

They redoubled their efforts. The wind blew violently, and forced the
sails against the mast. A few tremors were felt in the hull, and the
brig seemed on the point of rising. Perhaps a little more power would
suffice to draw her from the sand.

"Helena! Mary!" cried Glenarvan.