The two ladies came and joined their efforts to those of their
companions. A final crack was heard, but that was all! The experiment
had failed. The tide was already beginning to ebb, and it was evident
that, even with the aid of wind and tide, this insufficient crew could
not float their ship.

As their first plan had failed, it was necessary to have recourse to
the second without delay. It was plain that they could not raise the
Macquarie, and that the only way was to abandon her. To wait on board
for the uncertain arrival of assistance would have been folly and
madness.

The captain therefore proposed to construct a raft strong enough to
convey the passengers and a sufficient quantity of provisions to the
New Zealand coast. It was not a time for discussion, but for action.
The work was accordingly begun, and considerably advanced when night
interrupted them.

In the evening, after supper, while Lady Helena and Mary Grant were
reposing in their berths, Paganel and his friends conversed seriously
as they paced the deck. The geographer had asked Captain Mangles
whether the raft could not follow the coast as far as Auckland, instead
of landing the passengers at once. The captain replied that it would be
impossible with such a rude craft.

"And could we have done with the boat what we cannot do with the raft?"

"Yes, candidly speaking, we could," was the reply; "but with the
necessity of sailing by day and anchoring by night."

[Sidenote: A FRENCHMAN'S FOIBLE.]

"Then these wretches, who have abandoned us----"

"Oh," said Captain Mangles, "they were drunk, and in the profound
darkness I fear they have paid for their cowardly desertion with their
lives."

"So much the worse for them," continued Paganel; "and for us, too, as
this boat would have been useful."

"What do you mean, Paganel?" said Glenarvan. "The raft will take us
ashore."

"That is precisely what I would avoid," replied the geographer.

"What! can a journey of not more than twenty miles terrify us, after
what has been done on the Pampas and in Australia?"

"My friends," resumed Paganel, "I do not doubt your courage, nor that
of our fair companions. Twenty miles is nothing in any other country
except New Zealand. Here, however, anything is better than venturing
upon these treacherous shores."

"Anything is better than exposing yourself to certain death on a
wrecked vessel," returned Captain Mangles.

"What have we to fear in New Zealand?" asked Glenarvan.

"The savages!" replied Paganel.

"The savages?" said Glenarvan. "Can we not avoid them by following the
coast? Besides, an attack from a few wretches cannot intimidate ten
well-armed and determined Europeans."

"It is not a question of wretches," rejoined Paganel. "The New
Zealanders form terrible tribes that struggle against the English
government, fight with invaders, frequently conquer them, and always
eat them."

"Cannibals! cannibals!" cried Robert; and then he murmured, as though
afraid to give full utterance to the words, "My sister! Lady Helena!"

"Never fear, my boy!" said Glenarvan; "our friend Paganel exaggerates."