"I do not exaggerate," replied Paganel. "With these New Zealanders war
is what the sports of the chase are to civilized nations; and the game
they hunt for they feast upon."

"Paganel," said the major, "this may be all very true, but have you
forgotten the introduction of Christianity? has it not destroyed these
anthropophagous habits?"

"No, it has not," was the prompt reply. "The records are yet fresh of
ministers who have gone out to proclaim Christianity and have fallen
victims to the murderous and cannibal instincts of those to whom they
preached. Not long since, in the year 1864, one of these clergymen
was seized by the chiefs, was hung to the tree, was tantalized and
tortured to his last moments; and then, whilst some tore his body to
pieces, others devoured the various members. No, the Maoris are still
cannibals, and will remain so for some time to come."

But Paganel was on this point a pessimist, contrary to his usual
characteristic.

CHAPTER XLVII.

A DREADED COUNTRY.

What Paganel had stated was indisputable. The cruelty of the New
Zealanders could not be doubted. There was, therefore, danger in
landing. But if the danger had been a hundred times greater, it must
have been faced. Captain Mangles felt the necessity of leaving this
vessel, which would soon break up. Between two perils, one certain, the
other only probable, there was no possible hesitation.

[Sidenote: ANOTHER CHANGE OF RESIDENCE.]

As for the chance of being picked up by some passing ship, they could
not reasonably rely upon it, for the Macquarie was out of the course
usually taken in going to New Zealand. The shipwreck had happened on
the desert shores of Ika-Na-Maoui.

"When shall we start?" asked Glenarvan.

"To-morrow morning at ten o'clock," replied Captain Mangles. "The tide
will begin to rise then, and will carry us ashore."

Early the next day the raft was finished. The captain had given
his entire attention to its construction. They needed a steady and
manageable craft, and one capable of resisting the waves for a voyage
of nine miles. The masts of the brig could alone furnish the necessary
materials.

The raft was at length completed. It could doubtless sustain the shock
of the surges; but could it be steered, and the coast be reached, if
the wind should veer? This was a question only to be decided by trial.

At nine o'clock the loading began. The provisions were first put on
board in sufficient quantities to last until the arrival at Auckland,
for there could be no reliance upon the products of this dreaded
country. Olbinett furnished some preserved meats, the remains of the
Macquarie's supplies. There was very little, however; and they were
forced to depend upon the coarse fare of the mess, which consisted of
very inferior ship-biscuits and two barrels of salt fish, greatly to
the steward's regret.