These stores were inclosed in sealed cans and then secured to the foot
of the mast. The arms and ammunition were put in a safe and dry place.
Fortunately, the travelers were well supplied with rifles and revolvers.

A small anchor was taken on board, in case they should reach the shore
at low tide and be forced to anchor in the offing. Flood-tide soon
began, the breeze blew gently from the northwest, and a slight swell
agitated the surface of the sea.

"Are we ready?" asked Captain Mangles.

"All is ready, captain," replied Wilson.

"Aboard, then!"

Lady Helena and Mary Grant descended the ship's side by a clumsy
rope-ladder, and took their seats at the foot of the mast near the
cases of provisions, their companions around them. Wilson took the
helm, the captain stationed himself at the sail-tackling, and Mulready
cut the cable that confined the raft to the brig. The sail was spread,
and they began to move towards the shore under the combined influence
of wind and tide.

The coast was only nine miles distant,--not a difficult voyage for a
well-manned boat; but with the raft it was necessary to advance slowly.
If the wind held out, they might perhaps reach land with this tide; but
if there should be a calm, the ebb would carry them back, or they would
be compelled to anchor and wait for the next tide.

However, Captain Mangles hoped to succeed. The wind freshened. As it
had been flood now for some hours, they must either reach land soon, or
anchor.

Fortune favored them. Gradually the black points of the rocks and
the yellow sand of the bars disappeared beneath the waves; but great
attention and extreme skill became necessary, in this dangerous
neighborhood, to guide their unwieldy craft.

They were still five miles from shore. A clear sky enabled them to
distinguish the principal features of the country. To the northeast
rose a lofty mountain, whose outline was defined against the horizon in
a very singular resemblance to the grinning profile of a monkey.

Paganel soon observed that all the sand-bars had disappeared.

"Except one," replied Lady Helena.

"Where?" asked Paganel.

"There," said Lady Helena, pointing to a black speck a mile ahead.

"That is true," answered Paganel. "Let us try to determine its
position, that we may not run upon it when the tide covers it."

"It is exactly at the northern projection of the mountain," said
Captain Mangles. "Wilson, bear away towards the offing."

"Yes, captain," replied the sailor, bearing with all his weight upon
the steering oar.

They approached nearer; but, strange to say, the black point still
rose above the water. The captain gazed at it attentively, and, to see
better, employed Paganel's telescope.

"It is not a rock," said he, after a moment's examination; "it is a
floating object, that rises and falls with the swell."

"Is it not a piece of the Macquarie's mast?" asked Lady Helena.

"No," replied Glenarvan; "no fragment could have drifted so far from
the ship."