"Wait!" cried Captain Mangles. "I recognize it. It is the boat."

"The brig's boat?" said Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord, the brig's boat, bottom upwards."

"The unfortunate sailors!" exclaimed Lady Helena, "they have perished!"

"Yes, madam," continued the captain; "and they might have foreseen
it; for in the midst of these breakers, on a stormy sea, and in such
profound darkness, they fled to certain death."

"May Heaven have pity on them!" murmured Mary Grant.

For a few moments the passengers were silent. They gazed at this frail
bark towards which they drew nearer and nearer. It had evidently
capsized a considerable distance from land, and of those who embarked
in it probably not one had survived.

"But this boat may be useful," said Glenarvan.

"Certainly," replied Captain Mangles. "Come about, Wilson."

[Sidenote: REALITIES AND FANCIES.]

The direction of the raft was changed, but the wind subsided gradually,
and it cost them much time to reach the boat. Mulready, standing at the
bow, warded off the shock, and the yawl was drawn alongside.

"Empty?" asked Captain Mangles.

"Yes, captain," replied the sailor, "the boat is empty, and her seams
have started open. She is of no use to us."

"Can we not save any part?" asked MacNabb.

"No," answered the captain. "She is only fit to burn."

"I am sorry," said Paganel, "for the yawl might have taken us to
Auckland."

"We must be resigned, Mr. Paganel," rejoined the captain. "Moreover, on
such a rough sea, I prefer our raft to that frail conveyance. A slight
shock would dash it in pieces! Therefore, my lord, we have nothing more
to stay here for."

"As you wish, John," said Glenarvan.

"Forward, Wilson," continued the young captain, "straight for the
coast!"

The tide would yet flow for about an hour, and in this time they could
accomplish a considerable distance. But soon the breeze subsided almost
entirely, and the raft was motionless. Soon it even began to drift
towards the open sea under the influence of the ebb.

The captain did not hesitate a moment.

"Anchor!" cried he.

Mulready, who was in an instant ready to execute this order, let fall
the anchor, and the raft drifted till the cable was taut. The sail was
reefed, and arrangements were made for a long detention. Indeed, the
tide would not turn till late in the evening; and, as they did not care
to sail in the dark, they anchored for the night in sight of land.

Quite a heavy swell agitated the surface of the water, and seemed to
set steadily towards the shore. Glenarvan, therefore, when he learned
that the whole night would be passed on board, asked why they did not
take advantage of this current to approach the coast.