"My lord," replied the young captain, "is deceived by an optical
illusion. The apparent onward movement is only an oscillation of the
water, nothing more. Throw a piece of wood into the water, and you will
see that it will remain stationary, so long as the ebb is not felt. We
must therefore have patience."

"And dinner," added the major.

Olbinett took out of a case of provisions some pieces of dried meat and
a dozen biscuits, though reluctant to offer such meagre fare. It was
accepted, however, with good grace, even by the ladies, whose appetites
the fresh sea air greatly improved.

Night approached. Already the sun's disk, glowing with crimson, was
disappearing beneath the horizon; and the waters glistened and sparkled
like sheets of liquid silver under his last rays. Nothing could be
seen but sky and water, except one sharply-defined object, the hull of
the Macquarie, motionless on the reefs. The short twilight was rapidly
followed by the darkness, and soon the land that bounded the horizon
some miles away was lost in the gloom. In this perplexing situation
these shipwrecked people lapsed into an uneasy and distressing
drowsiness, and as the result at daybreak all were more exhausted than
refreshed.

With the turn of the tide the wind rose. It was six o'clock in the
morning, and time was precious. Preparations were made for getting
under way, and the order was given to weigh anchor; but the flukes,
by the strain of the cable, were so deeply imbedded in the sand that
without the windlass even the tackling that Wilson arranged could not
draw them out.

[Sidenote: TERRA-FIRMA ONCE MORE.]

Half an hour passed in useless efforts. The captain, impatient to set
sail, cut the cable, and thus took away all possibility of anchoring,
in case the tide should not enable them to reach the shore. The sail
was unfurled, and they drifted slowly towards the land that rose in
grayish masses against the background of the sky, illumined by the
rising sun. The reefs were skillfully avoided, but, with the unsteady
breeze, they did not seem to draw nearer the shore.

At last, however, land was less than a mile distant, craggy with rocks
and very precipitous. It was necessary to find a practicable landing.
The wind now moderated and soon subsided entirely, the sail flapping
idly against the mast. The tide alone moved the raft; but they had to
give up steering, and masses of sea-weed retarded their progress.

After awhile they gradually became stationary three cable-lengths from
shore. But they had no anchor, and would they not be carried out to
sea again by the ebb? With eager glance and anxious heart the captain
looked towards the inaccessible shore.