Paganel, as usual, upon being appealed to, could tell them of the
rise, extension, and consolidation of the British power upon the
island; he informed them of the beginnings--and, to his belief, of
the causes--of the strife which for years decimated the aborigines,
and was very injurious to the colonists who had emigrated; then, in
reply to Robert's questions, he went on to speak of those who on a
narrower theatre had emulated by their heroism and patience the deeds
of the world's great travelers and scientific explorers. He told them
of Witcombe and Charlton Howitt, men known in their own circles and
in connection with their own branch of the New Zealand government.
At still greater length he detailed the adventures of Jacob Louper,
who was the companion of Witcombe, and had gone as his assistant
to discover a practicable route over the mountains in the north of
the province of Canterbury. In those mountain wilds, which even the
islanders rarely traverse, these two Europeans suffered greatly, but
still worse was their fate when they descended to the water-level and
essayed to cross the Taramakau near its mouth. Jacob Louper at length
found two old and almost useless canoes, and by attaching the one to
the other they hoped to accomplish the passage safely. Before they
had reached the middle of the rapid current, however, both the tubs
capsized. Louper, with difficulty, managed to support himself on one
of them, and by clinging to it was at length carried to the river's
bank, which his companion also reached; but when after a period of
insensibility Louper returned to consciousness and found the body of
Witcombe, it was lifeless. Though terribly bruised and still bleeding
from his wounds, Louper hollowed a grave for the remains, and then,
after many more days of privation and danger, came to the huts of some
of the Maoris, by whose assistance he at length reached the settled
parts of the colony.

These facts and reminiscences, it must be confessed, were not of the
most inspiriting character; but they were in the same key as most of
Paganel's disquisitions and information concerning these islands, and
they were before a late hour exchanged for peaceful though probably
dreamy slumbers, by his hearers.

Early the next morning the signal for departure was given. The rain had
ceased during the night, and the sky was covered with grayish clouds,
which intercepted the rays of the sun, so that the temperature thus
moderated enabled them to endure the fatigues of the journey.

By consulting the map, Paganel had calculated that they would have to
travel eight days. But, instead of following the windings of the coast,
he considered it best to proceed to the village of Ngarnavahia, at the
junction of the Waikato and Waipa rivers. Here the overland mail-road
passed, and it would thence be easy to reach Drury, and rest, after
their hardships, in a comfortable hotel.