But before they left the shore their attention was drawn to the large
number of seals, of a peculiar appearance and genus, which lay on the
broad sands daily washed by the tidal water. These seals, with their
rounded heads, their upturned look, their expressive eyes, presented an
appearance, almost a physiognomy, that was mild and wellnigh tender,
and served to recall to the traveler's memory the tales about the
sirens of the olden and modern times, who served as the enchantresses
to just such inhospitable shores as that seemed on which they had
themselves been cast. These animals, which are very numerous on the
coast of New Zealand, are hunted and killed for the sake of their
oil and their skins, and Paganel was of course able to tell how much
within the last few years they had been searched for by the traders and
navigators on these seas.

Whilst speaking of these matters, Robert drew Paganel's attention to
some curious amphibious creatures, resembling the seals, but larger,
which were devouring with rapidity the large stones lying on the shore.

"Look," said he, "here are seals which feed on pebbles."

Paganel assured them that these sea-elephants were only weighting
themselves preparatory to their descent into the water, and protested
that if they would but wait for a time they might see them descend and
subsequently return when they had unloaded themselves. The first part
of this programme they saw accomplished; but, greatly to Paganel's
grief, Glenarvan would not longer delay the party, and they soon began
to see inland beauties and curiosities of another sort.

The district through which they had to walk this day and the next was
one very thick with brush and under-wood, and there was no possibility
of horse or vehicle passing or meeting them. They now regretted the
absence of their Australian cart, for the height and frequency of
the large ferns in the neighborhood prevented their making any rapid
progress on foot.

[Sidenote: THE LAST STAGE OF PERIPATETICS.]