Here and there, however, Robert and Paganel would rejoice together
over some choice bush or bird that they had met with. Notable among
the latter was the New Zealand "kiwi," known to naturalists as the
apteryx, and which is becoming very scarce, from the pursuit of its
many enemies. Robert discovered in a nest on the ground a couple of
these birds without tails or wings, but with four toes on the foot, and
a long beak or bill like that of a woodcock, and small white feathers
all over its body. Of this bird there was then an entire absence in the
zoological collections of Europe, and Paganel indulged the hope that he
might be able to be the proud contributor of such a valuable specimen
to the "Jardin" of his own city. For the present, at least, the
realization of his hopes had to be deferred; and at length, after some
days of weariness and continued travel, the party reached the banks
of the Waipa. The country was deserted. There was no sign of natives,
no path that would indicate the presence of man in these regions. The
waters of the river flowed between tall bushes, or glided over sandy
shallows, while the range of vision extended to the hills that inclosed
the valley on the east.

At four o'clock in the afternoon nine miles had been valiantly
accomplished. According to the map, which Paganel continually
consulted, the junction of the Waikato and Waipa could not be more
than five miles distant. The road to Auckland passed this point, and
there they would encamp for the night. As for the fifty miles that
would still separate them from the capital, two or three days would
be sufficient for this, and even eight hours, if they should meet the
mail-coach.

"Then," said Glenarvan, "we shall be compelled to encamp again
to-night."

"Yes," replied Paganel; "but, as I hope, for the last time."

"So much the better; for these are severe hardships for Lady Helena and
Mary Grant."

"And they endure them heroically," added Captain Mangles. "But, if I am
not mistaken, Mr. Paganel, you have spoken of a village situated at the
junction of the two rivers."

"Yes," answered the geographer; "here it is on the map. It is
Ngarnavahia, about two miles below the junction."

"Well, could we not lodge there for the night? Lady Helena and Miss
Grant would not hesitate to go two miles farther, if they could find a
tolerable hotel."

"A hotel!" cried Paganel. "A hotel in a Maori village! There is not
even a tavern. This village is only a collection of native huts;
and, far from seeking shelter there, my advice is to avoid it most
carefully."

"Always your fears, Paganel!" said Glenarvan.