"My dear lord, distrust is better than confidence among the Maoris. I
do not know upon what terms they are with the English. Now, timidity
aside, such as ourselves would be fine prizes, and I dislike to try New
Zealand hospitality. I therefore think it wise to avoid this village,
and likewise any meeting with the natives. Once at Drury, it will be
different, and there our courageous ladies can refresh themselves at
their ease for the fatigues of their journey."

The geographer's opinion prevailed. Lady Helena preferred to pass
the last night in the open air rather than to expose her companions.
Neither she nor Mary Grant required a halt, and they therefore
continued to follow the banks of the river.

Two hours after, the first shadows of evening began to descend the
mountains. The sun before disappearing below the western horizon had
glinted a few rays through a rift in the clouds. The eastern peaks were
crimsoned with the last beams of day.

Glenarvan and his friends hastened their pace. They knew the shortness
of the twilight in this latitude, and how quickly night sets in. It
was important to reach the junction of the two rivers before it became
dark. But a dense fog rose from the earth, and made it very difficult
to distinguish the way.

Fortunately, hearing availed in place of sight. Soon a distinct murmur
of the waters indicated the union of the two streams in a common bed,
and not long after the little party arrived at the point where the
Waipa mingles with the Waikato in resounding cascades.

"Here is the Waikato," cried Paganel, "and the road to Auckland runs
along its right bank."

"We shall see to-morrow," replied the major. "Let us encamp here. It
seems to me as if those deeper shadows yonder proceeded from a little
thicket of trees that has grown here expressly to shelter us. Let us
eat and sleep."

[Sidenote: A TRANSFORMATION SCENE.]

"Eat," said Paganel, "but of biscuits and dried meat, without kindling
a fire. We have arrived here unseen; let us try to go away in the same
manner. Fortunately, this fog will render us invisible."

The group of trees was reached, and each conformed to the geographer's
rigorous regulations. The cold supper was noiselessly eaten, and soon a
profound sleep overcame the weary travelers.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

INTRODUCTION TO THE CANNIBALS.

The next morning at break of day a dense fog was spreading heavily over
the river, but the rays of the sun were not long in piercing the mist,
which rapidly disappeared under the influence of the radiant orb. The
banks of the stream were released from their shroud, and the course of
the Waikato appeared in all its morning beauty.