The evening before, the little party, led astray by the dense fog, had
encamped in the midst of a numerous tribe of natives. About midnight,
the travelers, surprised in their sleep, were made prisoners and
carried on board the canoe. They had not yet been maltreated, but had
tried in vain to resist. Their arms and ammunition were in the hands of
the savages, and their own bullets would have quickly stretched them on
the earth had they attempted to escape.

They were not long in learning, by the aid of a few English words which
the natives used, that, being driven back by the British troops, they
were returning, vanquished and weakened, to the regions of the upper
Waikato. Their chief, after an obstinate resistance, in which he lost
his principal warriors, was now on his way to rouse again the river
tribes. He was called Kai-Koumou, a terrible name, which signified
in the native language "he who eats the limbs of his enemy." He was
brave and bold, but his cruelty equaled his bravery. No pity could be
expected from him. His name was well known to the English soldiers, and
a price had been set upon his head by the governor of New Zealand.

This terrible catastrophe had come upon Glenarvan just as he was
about reaching the long-desired harbor of Auckland, whence he would
have returned to his native country. Yet, looking at his calm and
passionless countenance, you could not have divined the depth of his
anguish, for in his present critical situation he did not betray the
extent of his misfortunes. He felt that he ought to set an example of
fortitude to his wife and his companions, as being the husband and
chief. Moreover, he was ready to die first for the common safety, if
circumstances should require it.

[Sidenote: CHIEFS, CIVILIZED AND UNCIVILIZED.]

His companions were worthy of him; they shared his noble thoughts, and
their calm and haughty appearance would scarcely have intimated that
they were being carried away to captivity and suffering. By common
consent, at Glenarvan's suggestion, they had resolved to feign a proud
indifference in the presence of the savages. It was the only way of
influencing those fierce natures.

Since leaving the encampment, the natives, taciturn like all savages,
had scarcely spoken to each other. However, from a few words exchanged,
Glenarvan perceived that they were acquainted with the English
language. He therefore resolved to question the chief in regard to the
fate that was in store for them. Addressing Kai-Koumou, he said, in a
fearless tone:

"Where are you taking us, chief?"

Kai-Koumou gazed at him coldly without answering.

"Say, what do you expect to do with us?" continued Glenarvan.

The chief's eyes blazed with a sudden light, and in a stern voice he
replied:

"To exchange you, if your friends will ransom you; to kill you, if they
refuse."