Before Kai-Koumou had informed his captives of his intention to
exchange them, Glenarvan and Captain Mangles had discussed various
methods of recovering their liberty. What they could not venture in the
boat they hoped to attempt on land, at the hour for encamping, under
cover of the night.

But since Glenarvan's conversation with the chief, it seemed wise to
abandon this design. They must be patient. It was the most prudent
plan. The exchange offered chances that neither an open attack nor a
flight across these unknown regions could afford. Many circumstances
might indeed arise that would delay, and even prevent, such a
transaction; but still it was better to await the result. What,
moreover, could ten defenceless men do against thirty well-armed
savages? Besides, Glenarvan thought it likely that Kai-Koumou's tribe
had lost some chief of high rank whom they were particularly anxious to
recover; and he was not mistaken.

The next day the canoe ascended the river with increased swiftness.
It stopped for a moment at the junction of a small river which wound
across the plains on the right bank. Here another canoe, with ten
natives on board, joined Kai-Koumou. The warriors merely exchanged
salutations, and then continued their course. The new-comers had
recently fought against the English troops, as could be seen by their
tattered garments, their gory weapons, and the wounds that still bled
beneath their rags. They were gloomy and taciturn, and, with the
indifference common to all savage races, paid no attention to the
captives.

Towards evening Kai-Koumou landed at the foot of the mountains,
whose nearer ridges reached precipitously to the river-bank. Here
twenty natives, who had disembarked from their canoes, were making
preparations for the night. Fires blazed beneath the trees. A chief,
equal in rank to Kai-Koumou, advanced with measured pace, and, rubbing
his nose against that of the latter, saluted him cordially. The
prisoners were stationed in the centre of the encampment, and guarded
with extreme vigilance.

The next morning the ascent of the Waikato was resumed. Other boats
came from various affluents of the river. Sixty warriors, evidently
fugitives from the last insurrection, had now assembled, and were
returning, more or less wounded in the fray, to the mountain districts.
Sometimes a song arose from the canoes, as they advanced in single
file. One native struck up the patriotic ode of the mysterious "Pihé,"
the national hymn that calls the Maoris to battle. The full and
sonorous voice of the singer waked the echoes of the mountains; and
after each stanza his comrades struck their breasts, and sang the
warlike verses in chorus. Then they seized their oars again, and the
canoes were headed up stream.