During the day a singular sight enlivened the voyage. About four
o'clock the canoe, without lessening its speed, guided by the steady
hand of the chief, dashed through a narrow gorge. Eddies broke
violently against numerous small islands, which rendered navigation
exceeding dangerous. Never could it be more hazardous to capsize, for
the banks afforded no refuge, and whoever had set foot on the porous
crust of the shore would probably have perished. At this point the
river flowed between warm springs, oxide of iron colored the muddy
ground a brilliant red, and not a yard of firm earth could be seen.
The air was heavy with a penetrating sulphureous odor. The natives did
not regard it, but the captives were seriously annoyed by the noxious
vapors exhaled from the fissures of the soil and the bubbles that
burst and discharged their gaseous contents. Yet, however disagreeable
these emanations were, the eye could not but admire this magnificent
spectacle.

The canoes soon after entered a dense cloud of white smoke, whose
wreaths rose in gradually decreasing circles above the river. On the
shores a hundred geysers, some shooting forth masses of vapor, and
others overflowing in liquid columns, varied their effects, like the
jets and cascades of a fountain. It seemed as though some engineer was
directing at his pleasure the outflowings of these springs, as the
waters and vapor, mingling in the air, formed rainbows in the sunbeams.

For two miles the canoes glided within this vapory atmosphere,
enveloped in its warm waves that rolled along the surface of the water.
Then the sulphureous smoke disappeared, and a pure swift current of
fresh air refreshed the panting voyagers. The region of the springs was
passed. Before the close of the day two more rapids were ascended, and
at evening Kai-Koumou encamped a hundred miles above the junction of
the two streams. The river now turned towards the east, and then again
flowed southward into Lake Taupo.

The next morning Jacques Paganel consulted his map and discovered
on the right bank Mount Taubara, which rises to the height of three
thousand feet. At noon the whole fleet of boats entered Lake Taupo, and
the natives hailed with frantic gestures a shred of cloth that waved in
the wind from the roof of a hut. It was the national flag.

CHAPTER XLIX.

A MOMENTOUS INTERVIEW.

[Sidenote: NEW ZEALAND TOPOGRAPHY.]

Long before historic times, an abyss, twenty-five miles long and
twenty wide, must at some period have been formed by a subsidence of
subterranean caverns in the volcanic district forming the centre of
the island. The waters of the surrounding country have rushed down and
filled this enormous cavity, and the abyss has become a lake, whose
depth no one has yet been able to measure.