Only one opening gave access to the dwelling. A thick curtain, made
of a vegetable tissue, served as a door. The roof projected so as to
form a water-shed. Several faces, carved at the ends of the rafters,
adorned the hut, and the curtain was covered with various imitations
of foliage, symbolical figures, monsters, and graceful sculpturing,
a curious piece of work, fashioned by the scissors of the native
decorators.

[Sidenote: FEMININE ORATORY.]

Inside of the habitation the floor was made of hard-trodden earth,
and raised six inches above the ground. Several rush screens and some
mattresses, covered with woven matting of long leaves and twigs,
served as beds. In the middle of the room a hole in a stone formed the
fireplace, and another in the roof answered for a chimney.

The smoke, when it became sufficiently thick, perforce escaped at this
outlet, but it of course blackened the walls of the house.

On one side of the hut were storehouses, containing the chief's
provisions, his harvest of flax, potatoes, and edible ferns, and
the ovens where the various articles of food were cooked by contact
with heated stones. Farther off, in small pens, pigs and goats were
confined, and dogs ran about seeking their scanty sustenance. They were
rather poorly kept, for animals that formed the Maori daily food.

Glenarvan and his companions had taken in the whole at a glance. They
awaited beside an empty hut the good pleasure of the chief, exposed to
the insults of a crowd of old women, who surrounded them like harpies,
and threatened them with their fists, crying and howling. Several
English words that passed their lips clearly indicated that they were
demanding immediate vengeance.

In the midst of these cries and threats, Lady Helena affected a
calmness that she could not feel in her heart. This courageous woman,
in order that her husband's coolness might not forsake him, heroically
controlled her emotions. Poor Mary Grant felt herself growing weak, and
Captain Mangles supported her, ready to die in her defence. The others
endured this torrent of invectives in various ways, either indifferent
like the major, or increasingly annoyed like Paganel.

Glenarvan, wishing to relieve Lady Helena from the assaults of these
shrews, boldly approached Kai-Koumou, and, pointing to the hideous
throng, said:

"Drive them away!"

The Maori chief gazed steadily at his prisoner without replying. Then
with a gesture he silenced the noisy horde. Glenarvan bowed in token of
thanks, and slowly resumed his place among his friends.

Kai-Koumou, fearing an insurrection of the fanatics of his tribe, now
led his captives to a sacred place, situated at the other end of the
pah, on the edge of a precipice. This hut rested against a rock that
rose a hundred feet above it and was a steep boundary to this side of
the fortification. In this consecrated temple the priests, or "arikis,"
instruct the New Zealanders. The building was spacious and tightly
closed, and contained the holy and chosen food of the god.