"My companions are also English. We are shipwrecked travelers, and, if
you care to know, we have taken no part in the war."

"No matter," replied Kara-Tété, brutally. "Every Englishman is our
enemy. Your people have invaded our island. They have stolen away our
fields; they have burned our villages."

"They have done wrong," said Glenarvan, in a grave tone. "I say so
because I think so, and not because I am in your power."

"Listen," continued Kai-Koumou. "Tohonga, the high-priest of
Nouï-Atoua, has fallen into the hands of your brothers. He is prisoner
of the Pakekas (Europeans). Our god commands us to ransom his life.
I would have torn out your heart, I would have hung your companions'
heads and yours forever to the stakes of this palisade. But Nouï-Atoua
has spoken."

So saying, Kai-Koumou, who had hitherto controlled himself, trembled
with rage, and his countenance was flushed with a fierce exultation.
Then, after a few moments, he resumed, more coolly:

"Do you think the English will give us our Tohonga in exchange for you?"

Glenarvan hesitated, and watched the Maori chief very attentively.

"I do not know," said he, after a moment's silence.

"Speak," continued Kai-Koumou. "Is your life worth that of our Tohonga?"

"No," answered Glenarvan. "I am neither a chief nor a priest among my
people."

Paganel was astounded at this reply, and gazed at Glenarvan in profound
wonder. Kai-Koumou seemed equally surprised.

"Then you doubt it?" said he.

"I do not know," repeated Glenarvan.

"Will not your people accept you in exchange for our Tohonga?"

"Not me alone," replied Glenarvan; "but perhaps all of us."

"Among the Maoris," said Kai-Koumou, "it is one for one."

"Offer these ladies first in exchange for your priest," answered
Glenarvan, pointing to Lady Helena and Mary Grant. Lady Helena would
have rushed towards her husband, but the major restrained her.

"These two ladies," continued Glenarvan, turning respectfully towards
them, "hold a high rank in their country."

The warrior glanced coldly at his prisoner. A malicious smile passed
over his face; but he almost instantly repressed it, and replied, in a
voice which he could scarcely control:

"Do you hope, then, to deceive Kai-Koumou by false words, cursed
European? Do you think that Kai-Koumou's eyes cannot read your heart?"

Then, pointing to Lady Helena, he said:

"That is your wife!"

"No, mine!" cried Kara-Tété.

Then, pushing back the prisoners, the chief laid his hand on Lady
Helena's shoulder, who grew pale at the touch.

"Edward!" cried the unfortunate woman, in terror.

Glenarvan, without uttering a word, raised his arm. A report resounded.
Kara-Tété fell dead.

At this sound a crowd of natives issued from the huts. The pah was
filled in an instant. A hundred arms were raised against the captives.
Glenarvan's revolver was snatched from his hand.

Kai-Koumou cast a strange look at Glenarvan, and then, guarding with
one hand the person of him who had fired, he controlled with the other
the throng that was rushing upon the Europeans.

At last his voice rose above the tumult.