"Taboo! taboo!" cried he.

At this word the crowd fell back before Glenarvan and his companions,
thus temporarily preserved by a supernatural power. A few moments after
they were led back to the temple that served as their prison; but
Robert Grant and Paganel were no longer with them.

CHAPTER L.

THE CHIEF'S FUNERAL.

Kai-Koumou, according to a custom quite ordinary in New Zealand, joined
the rank of priest to that of chief, and could, therefore, extend to
persons or objects the superstitious protection of the taboo.

The taboo, which is common to the tribes of Polynesia, has the power
to prohibit at once all connection with the object or person tabooed.
According to the Maori religion, whoever should lay his sacrilegious
hand on what is declared taboo would be punished with death by the
offended god; and in case the divinity should delay to avenge his own
insult, the priests would not fail to excite his anger.

As for the prisoners confined in the temple, the taboo had rescued
them from the fury of the tribe. Some of the natives, the friends and
partisans of Kai-Koumou, had stopped suddenly at the command of their
chief, and had protected the captives.

[Sidenote: THE TORTURES OF SUSPENSE.]

Glenarvan, however, was not blind to the fate that was reserved for
him. Only his death could atone for the murder of a chief. Among savage
races death is always preceded by a protracted torture. He therefore
expected to cruelly expiate the righteous indignation that had nerved
his arm, but hoped that Kai-Koumou's rage would fall only on himself.

What a night he and his companions passed! Who could depict their
anguish, or measure their sufferings? Neither poor Robert nor brave
Paganel had reappeared. But how could they doubt their fate? Were they
not the first victims of the natives' vengeance? All hope had vanished
even from the heart of the major, who did not easily despair. John
Mangles felt himself growing mad at sight of the sad dejection of Mary
Grant, thus separated from her brother. Glenarvan thought of that
terrible request of Lady Helena, who, rather than yield to torture or
slavery, preferred to die by his hand. Could he summon this fearful
courage? As for an escape, that was plainly impossible. Ten warriors,
armed to the teeth, guarded the entrance of the temple.

Morning came at last. There had been no communication between the
natives and the prisoners. The hut contained a considerable quantity
of food, which the unfortunates scarcely touched. Hunger gave place to
grief. The day passed without bringing a change or a hope. Doubtless
the hour for the dead chief's funeral and their torture would be the
same.

However, although Glenarvan concluded that Kai-Koumou must have
abandoned all idea of exchange, the major on this point retained a
gleam of hope.

"Who knows," said he, reminding Glenarvan of the effect produced upon
the chief by the death of Kara-Tété,--"who knows but that Kai-Koumou in
reality feels obliged to you?"