The captives were not taken back to the temple. They were to attend
that day the funeral of the dead chief, and the bloody ceremonies
connected therewith. A party of natives conducted them to the foot of
an enormous koudi, where these guardians remained without losing sight
of their prisoners. The rest of the tribe, absorbed in their official
mourning, seemed to have forgotten them.

The customary three days had elapsed since the death of Kara-Tété. The
soul of the deceased had therefore forever abandoned its mortal abode.
The sacred rites began.

The body was carried to a small mound in the centre of the
fortification, clothed in splendid costume, and enveloped in a
magnificent flaxen mat. The head was adorned with plumes, and wore a
crown of green leaves. The face, arms, and breast had been rubbed with
oil, and therefore showed no mortification.

The parents and friends of the deceased came to the foot of the
mound, and all at once, as if some director were beating time to a
funeral dirge, a great concert of cries, groans, and sobs arose on the
air. They mourned the dead in plaintive and modulated cadences. His
relations struck their heads together; his kinswomen lacerated their
faces with their nails, and showed themselves more lavish of blood than
of tears. These unfortunate females conscientiously fulfilled their
barbarous duty.

But these demonstrations were not enough to appease the soul of the
deceased, whose wrath would doubtless have smitten the survivors of his
tribe; and his warriors, as they could not recall him to life, wished
that he should have no cause to regret in the other world the happiness
of this.

Kara-Tété's wife was not to forsake her husband in the tomb. Moreover,
the unfortunate woman would not have been allowed to survive him;
it was the custom, in accordance with duty, and examples of such
sacrifices are not wanting in New Zealand history. The woman appeared.
She was still young. Her hair floated in disorder over her shoulders.
Vague words, lamentations, and broken phrases, in which she celebrated
the virtues of the dead, interrupted her groans; and, in a final
paroxysm of grief, she stretched herself at the foot of the mound,
beating the ground with her head.

At this moment Kai-Koumou approached her. Suddenly the unfortunate
victim rose; but a violent blow with the "méré," a formidable club,
wielded by the hand of the chief, struck her lifeless to the earth.

[Sidenote: POOR HUMANITY!]

Frightful cries at once broke forth. A hundred arms threatened the
captives, who trembled at the horrible sight. But no one stirred, for
the funeral ceremonies were not ended.

Kara-Tété's wife had joined her husband in the other world. Both bodies
lay side by side. But for the eternal life his faithful spouse could
not alone suffice the deceased. Who would serve them in presence of
Nouï-Atoua, if their slaves did not follow them?