Six unfortunates were brought before the corpse of their master and
mistress. They were servants, whom the pitiless laws of war had reduced
to slavery. During the life of the chief they had undergone the
severest privations, suffered a thousand abuses, had been scantily fed,
and compelled constantly to labor like beasts; and now, according to
the Maori belief, they were to continue their existence of servitude
for eternity.

They appeared to be resigned to their fate, and were not astonished
at a sacrifice they had long anticipated. Their freedom from all
bonds showed that they would meet death unresistingly. Moreover, this
death was rapid, protracted sufferings were spared them. These were
reserved for the captives who stood trembling not twenty paces distant.
Six blows of the méré, given by six stalwart warriors, stretched the
victims on the ground in a pool of blood. It was the signal for a
terrible scene of cannibalism, which followed in all its horrible
details.

Glenarvan and his companions, breathless with fright, strove to hide
this awful scene from the eyes of the two unhappy ladies. They now
understood what awaited them at sunrise the next day, and what cruel
tortures would doubtless precede such a death. They were dumb with
horror.

The funeral dance now began. Strong spirits, extracted from an
indigenous plant, maddened the savages till they seemed no longer
human. Would they not forget the taboo of the chief, and throw
themselves in their final outbreaks upon the prisoners who trembled at
their frenzy?

But Kai-Koumou had preserved his reason in the midst of the general
intoxication. He allowed this bloody orgy an hour to reach its utmost
intensity. The last act of the funeral was played with the usual rites.

The bodies of Kara-Tété and his wife were taken up, and their limbs
bent and gathered against the stomach, according to the New Zealand
custom. The place for the tomb had been chosen outside of the
fortification, about two miles distant, on the summit of a small
mountain, called Maunganamu, situated on the right shore of the lake.

Thither the bodies were to be carried. Two very rude palanquins, or
rather litters, were brought to the foot of the mound. The corpses,
folded together, in a sitting posture, and tied in their clothes by a
girdle of withes, were placed on this primitive bier. Four warriors
bore it between them, and the entire tribe, chanting the funeral hymn,
followed them in procession to the place of burial.

The captives, who were always watched, saw them leave the inner
inclosure of the pah, and then the songs and cries gradually died away.
For about half an hour this funeral escort continued in sight, in the
depths of the valley. Finally they perceived it again winding along
the mountain paths. The distance gave a fantastic appearance to the
undulating movements of the long, sinuous column.