The tribe stopped at the summit of the mountain, which was eight
hundred feet high, at the place prepared for Kara-Tété's interment.
A common Maori would have had only a hole and a heap of stones for a
grave; but for a powerful and dreaded chief, destined doubtless for a
speedy deification, a tomb worthy of his exploits was reserved.

[Sidenote: THE LAST NIGHT.]

The sepulchre had been surrounded by palisades, while stakes,
ornamented with faces reddened with ochre, stood beside the grave
where the bodies were to lie. The relatives had not forgotten that the
"waidoua" (the spirit of the dead) feeds on substantial nourishment
like the body during this perishable life. Food had therefore been
deposited in the inclosure, together with the weapons and clothes of
the deceased.

Nothing was wanting for the comfort of the tomb. Husband and wife were
laid side by side, and then covered with earth and grass after a series
of renewed lamentations. Then the procession silently descended the
mountain, and now no one could ascend it under penalty of death, for it
was tabooed.

CHAPTER LI.

STRANGELY LIBERATED.

Just as the sun was disappearing behind Lake Taupo, the captives were
led back to their prison. They were not to leave it again until the
summit of the Wahiti mountains should kindle with the first beams of
the day. One night remained to prepare for death. In spite of the
faintness, in spite of the horror with which they were seized, they
shared their repast in common.

"We shall need all the strength possible to face death," said
Glenarvan. "We must show these barbarians how Europeans and Christians
can die."

The meal being finished, Lady Helena repeated the evening prayer aloud,
while all her companions, with uncovered heads, joined her. Having
fulfilled this duty, and enjoyed this privilege, the prisoners embraced
each other. Lady Helena and Mary Grant then retired to one corner of
the hut, and stretched themselves upon a mat. Sleep, which soothes all
woes, soon closed their eyes, and they slumbered in each other's arms,
overcome by fatigue and long wakefulness.

Glenarvan, taking his friends aside, said:

"My dear companions, our lives and those of these poor ladies are in
God's hands. If Heaven has decreed that we shall die to-morrow, we can,
I am sure, die like brave people, like Christians, ready to appear
fearlessly before the final Judge. God, who does read the secrets of
the soul, knows that we are fulfilling a noble mission. If death awaits
us instead of success, it is his will. However severe his decree may
be, I shall not murmur against it. But this is not death alone; it is
torture, disgrace; and here are two women----"

Glenarvan's voice, hitherto firm, now faltered. He paused to control
his emotion. After a moment's silence, he said to the young captain:

"John, you have promised Mary Grant what I have promised Lady Helena.
What have you resolved?"

"This promise," replied John Mangles, "I believe I have the right in
the sight of God to fulfill."