"Yes, John; but we have no weapons."

"Here is one," answered John, displaying a poniard. "I snatched it from
Kara-Tété's hands when he fell at your feet. My lord, he of us who
survives the other shall fulfill this vow."

At these words a profound silence reigned in the hut. At last the major
interrupted it by saying:

"My friends, reserve this extreme measure till the last moment. I am no
advocate of what is irremediable."

"I do not speak for ourselves," replied Glenarvan. "We can brave
death, whatever it may be. Ah, if we were alone! Twenty times already
would I have urged you to make a sally and attack those wretches. But
_they_----"

[Sidenote: THE APPROACH OF DAY.]

At this moment Captain Mangles raised the mat and counted twenty-five
natives, who were watching at the door of their prison. A great fire
had been kindled, which cast a dismal light over the irregular outlines
of the pah. Some of these savages were stretched around the fire; and
others, standing and motionless, were darkly defined against the bright
curtain of flame.

It is said that, between the jailer who watches and the prisoner who
wishes to escape, the chances are on the side of the latter. Indeed,
the design of one is stronger than that of the other, for the first
may forget that he is guarding, but the second cannot forget that he
is guarded; the captive thinks oftener of escaping than his guardian
thinks of preventing his escape. But here it was hate and vengeance
that watched the prisoners, and not an indifferent jailer. They had not
been bound, for bonds were useless where twenty-five men guarded the
only outlet of the prison.

This hut was built against the rock that terminated the fortification,
and was only accessible by a narrow passage that connected it with the
front of the pah. The other two sides of the building were flanked
by towering precipices, and stood on the verge of an abyss a hundred
feet deep. A descent this way was therefore impossible. There was no
chance of escaping in the rear, which was guarded by the enormous rock.
The only exit was the door of the temple, and the Maoris defended the
narrow passage that connected it with the pah. All escape was therefore
out of the question; and Glenarvan, after examining the walls of his
prison, was forced to acknowledge this disheartening fact.

Meantime, the hours of this night of anguish were passing away. Dense
darkness had covered the mountain. Neither moon nor stars illumined
the deep shades. A few gusts of wind swept along the side of the
pah. The stakes of the hut groaned, the fire of the natives suddenly
revived at this passing draught, and the flames cast rapid flashes
into the temple, illumining for a moment the group of prisoners. These
poor people were absorbed with their last thoughts; a deathly silence
reigned in the hut.