It must have been about four o'clock in the morning, when the major's
attention was attracted by a slight sound that seemed to come from
behind the rear stakes, in the back wall that lay towards the rock. At
first he was indifferent to the noise, but finding that it continued,
he listened. At last, puzzled by its persistence, he put his ear close
to the ground to hear better. It seemed as if some one was scraping and
digging outside.

When he was certain of this fact, he passed quietly towards Glenarvan
and the captain, and led them to the rear of the hut.

"Listen," said he, in a low voice, motioning to them to bend down.

The scrapings became more and more audible. They could hear the little
stones grate under the pressure of a sharp instrument and fall down
outside.

"Some creature in its burrow," said Captain Mangles.

Glenarvan, with bewildered gaze, stood astonished.

"Who knows," said he, "but that it is a man?"

"Man or animal," replied the major, "I will know what is going on."

Wilson and Olbinett joined their companions, and all began to dig in
the wall, the captain with his poniard, the others with stones pulled
out of the ground, or with their nails, while Mulready, stretched on
the earth, watched the group of natives through the loop-hole of the
mat. But they were motionless around the fire, and did not suspect what
was transpiring twenty paces from them.

The soil was loose and crumbling, and lay upon a bed of clay, so that,
in spite of the want of tools, the hole rapidly enlarged. It was soon
evident that somebody, clinging to the sides of the pah, was making a
passage in its outer wall. What could be the object? Did he know of the
existence of the prisoners, or could a mere chance attempt at escape
explain the work that seemed nearly completed?

[Sidenote: HEAVENLY HELP FROM AN EARTHLY HAND.]

The captives redoubled their efforts. Their lacerated fingers bled,
but still they dug on. After half an hour's labor, the hole they were
drilling had reached a depth of three feet. They could perceive by the
sounds, which were now more distinct, that only a thin layer of earth
prevented immediate communication.

A few moments more elapsed, when suddenly the major drew back his hand,
which was cut by a sharp blade. He suppressed a cry that was about to
escape him. Captain Mangles, holding out his poniard, avoided the knife
that was moving out of the ground, but seized the hand that held it.
It was the hand of a woman or a youth, a European hand. Not a word had
been uttered on either side. There was plainly an object in keeping
silent.

"Is it Robert?" murmured Glenarvan.

But, though only whispering this name, Mary Grant, awakened by the
movement that was taking place in the hut, glided towards Glenarvan,
and, seizing this hand all soiled with mud, covered it with kisses.