"It is you! it is you!" cried the young girl, who could not be
mistaken, "you, my Robert!"

"Yes, little sister," replied Robert, "I am here to save you all! But
silence!"

"Brave lad!" repeated Glenarvan.

"Keep watch of the savages outside," continued Robert.

Mulready, whose attention had been diverted for a moment by the
appearance of the hand, resumed his post of observation.

"All is well," said he. "Only four warriors are watching now. The
others have fallen asleep."

"Courage!" replied Wilson.

In an instant the hole was widened, and Robert passed from the arms of
his sister into those of Lady Helena. Around his body was wound a rope
of flax.

"My boy! my boy!" murmured Lady Helena; "these savages did not kill
you?"

"No, madam," replied Robert. "Somehow, during the uproar, I succeeded
in escaping their vigilance. I crossed the yard. For two days I kept
hidden behind the bushes. At night I wandered about, longing to see you
again. While the tribe were occupied with the funeral of the chief,
I came and examined this side of the fortification, where the prison
stands, and saw that I could reach you. I stole this knife and rope
in a deserted hut. The tufts of grass and the bushes helped me to
climb. By chance I found a kind of grotto hollowed out in the very rock
against which this hut rests. I had only a few feet to dig in the soft
earth, and here I am."

Twenty silent kisses were his only answer.

"Let us start," said he, in a decided tone.

"Is Paganel below?" inquired Glenarvan.

"Mr. Paganel?" repeated the boy, surprised apparently at the question.

"Yes; is he waiting for us?"

"No, my lord. What! is he not here?"

"He is not, Robert," replied Mary Grant.

"What! have you not seen him?" exclaimed Glenarvan. "Did you not meet
each other in the confusion? Did you not escape together?"

"No, my lord," answered Robert, at a loss to understand the
disappearance of his friend Paganel.

"Let us start," said the major; "there is not a moment to lose.
Wherever Paganel may be, his situation cannot be worse than ours here.
Let us go."

Indeed, the moments were precious. It was high time to start.
The escape presented no great difficulties, but for the almost
perpendicular wall of rock outside of the grotto, twenty feet high. The
declivity then sloped quite gently to the base of the mountain, from
which point the captives could quickly gain the lower valleys, while
the Maoris, if they chanced to discover their flight, would be forced
to make a very long détour, since they were not aware of the passage
that had been dug in the mountain.