They now prepared to escape, and every precaution was taken to insure
their success. The captives crawled one by one through the narrow
passage, and found themselves in the grotto. Captain Mangles, before
leaving the hut, concealed all traces of their work, and glided in his
turn through the opening, which he closed with the mats. Their outlet
was therefore entirely hidden.

The object now was to descend the perpendicular wall of rock, which
would have been impossible if Robert had not brought the flax rope. It
was unwound, fastened to a point of rock, and thrown over the declivity.

Before allowing his friends to trust their weight to these flaxen
fibres, Captain Mangles tested them. They seemed to be quite strong,
but it would not answer to venture rashly, for a fall might be fatal.

"This rope," said he, "can only bear the weight of two bodies, and we
must therefore act accordingly. Let Lord and Lady Glenarvan slide down
first. When they have reached the bottom, three shakes at the rope will
be the signal to follow them."

"I will go first," replied Robert. "I have discovered at the base of
the slope a sort of deep excavation, where those who descend first can
wait for the others in safety."

"Go then, my boy," said Glenarvan, clasping the boy's hand.

Robert disappeared through the opening of the grotto. A moment after,
three shakes of the rope informed them that he had accomplished his
descent successfully.

Glenarvan and Lady Helena now ventured out of the grotto. The
darkness below was still profound, but the gray light of dawn was
already tinging the top of the mountain. The keen cold of the morning
reanimated the young wife; she felt stronger, and commenced her
perilous escape.

[Sidenote: A PRECIPITATE DESCENT.]

First her husband, and then she, slid down the rope to the point where
the perpendicular wall met the summit of the slope. Then Glenarvan,
going before his wife and assisting her, began to descend the
declivity of the mountain backwards. He sought for tufts of grass and
bushes that offered a point of support, and tried them before placing
Lady Helena's feet upon them. Several birds, suddenly awakened, flew
away with shrill cries, and the fugitives shuddered when a large stone
rolled noisily to the base of the mountain.

They had accomplished half the distance when a voice was heard at the
opening of the grotto.

"Stop!" whispered Captain Mangles.

Glenarvan, clinging with one hand to a tuft of grass and holding his
wife with the other, waited, scarcely breathing.

Wilson had taken alarm. Hearing some noise outside, he had returned to
the hut, and, raising the mat, watched the Maoris. At a sign from him
the captain had stopped Glenarvan.