In truth, one of the warriors, startled by some unaccustomed sound,
had risen and approached the prison. Standing two paces from the
hut, he listened with lowered head. He remained in this attitude
for a moment, that seemed an hour, with ear intent and eye on the
alert. Then, shaking his head as a man who is mistaken, he returned
to his companions, took an armful of dead wood and threw it on the
half-extinct fire, whose flames revived. His face, brightly illumined
by the blaze, betrayed no more anxiety, and, after gazing at the first
glimmers of dawn that tinged the horizon, he stretched himself beside
the fire to warm his cold limbs.

"All right!" said Wilson.

The captain made a sign to Glenarvan to continue his descent. The
latter, accordingly, slid gently down the slope, and soon Lady Helena
and he stood on the narrow path where Robert was waiting for them. The
rope was shaken three times, and next Captain Mangles, followed by Mary
Grant, took the same perilous course. They were successful, and joined
Lord and Lady Glenarvan.

Five minutes later all the fugitives, after their fortunate escape
from the hut, left this temporary retreat, and, avoiding the inhabited
shores of the lake, made their way by narrow paths farther down the
mountain. They advanced rapidly, seeking to avoid all points where they
might be seen. They did not speak, but glided like shadows through the
bushes. Where were they going? At random, it is true, but they were
free.

About five o'clock day began to break. Purple tints colored the lofty
banks of clouds. The mountain peaks emerged from the mists of the
morning. The orb of day would not be long in appearing, and instead of
being the signal for torture, was to betray the flight of the condemned.

Before this dreaded moment arrived it was important that the fugitives
should be beyond the reach of the savages. But they could not advance
quickly, for the paths were steep. Lady Helena scaled the declivities,
supported and even carried by Glenarvan, while Mary Grant leaned upon
the arm of her betrothed. Robert, happy and triumphant, whose heart was
full of joy at his success, took the lead, followed by the two sailors.

For half an hour the fugitives wandered at a venture. Paganel was not
there to guide them,--Paganel, the object of their fears, whose absence
cast a dark shadow over their happiness. However, they proceeded
towards the east as well as possible, in the face of a magnificent
dawn. They had soon reached an elevation of five hundred feet above
Lake Taupo, and the morning air at this altitude was keen and cold.
Hills and mountains rose one above another in indistinct outlines; but
Glenarvan only wished to conceal himself and his companions. Afterwards
they would see about issuing from this winding labyrinth.