At last the sun appeared and flashed his first rays into the faces of
the fugitives. Suddenly a terrible yelling, the concentrated union of a
hundred voices, broke forth upon the air. It rose from the pah, whose
exact position Glenarvan did not now know. Moreover, a thick curtain of
mist stretched at their feet, and prevented them from distinguishing
the valleys below.

But the fugitives could not doubt that their escape had been
discovered. Could they elude the pursuit of the natives? Had they been
perceived? Would their tracks betray them?

At this moment the lower strata of vapor rose, enveloping them for an
instant in a moist cloud, and they discerned, three hundred feet below
them, the frantic crowd of savages.

They saw, but were also seen. Renewed yells resounded, mingled with
barks; and the whole tribe, after vainly endeavoring to climb the rock,
rushed out of the inclosure and hastened by the shortest paths in
pursuit of the prisoners, who fled in terror from their vengeance.

CHAPTER LII.

THE SACRED MOUNTAIN.

The summit of the mountain was a hundred feet higher. It was important
for the fugitives to reach it, that they might conceal themselves from
the sight of the Maoris, on the opposite slope. They hoped that some
practicable ridge would then enable them to gain the neighboring peaks.
The ascent was, therefore, hastened, as the threatening cries came
nearer and nearer. The pursuers had reached the foot of the mountain.

"Courage, courage, my friends!" cried Glenarvan, urging his companions
with word and gesture.

[Sidenote: A SCENE OF ENCHANTMENT.]

In less than five minutes they reached the top of the mountain. Here
they turned around to consider their situation, and take some route by
which they might evade the Maoris.

From this height the prospect commanded Lake Taupo, which extended
towards the west in its picturesque frame of hills. To the north rose
the peaks of Pirongia; to the south the flaming crater of Tongariro.
But towards the east the view was limited by a barrier of peaks and
ridges.

Glenarvan cast an anxious glance around him. The mist had dissolved
under the rays of the sun, and his eye could clearly distinguish the
least depressions of the earth. No movement of the Maoris could escape
his sight.

The natives were not five hundred feet distant, when they reached the
plateau upon which the solitary peak rested. Glenarvan could not, for
ever so short a time, delay longer. At all hazards they must fly, at
the risk of being hemmed in on all sides.

"Let us go down," cried he, "before our only way of escape is blocked
up."

But just as the ladies rose by a final effort, MacNabb stopped them,
and said:

"It is useless, Glenarvan. Look!"