And all saw, indeed, that an inexplicable change had taken place in the
movements of the Maoris. Their pursuit had been suddenly interrupted.
Their ascent of the mountain had ceased, as if by an imperious
interdict. The crowd of natives had checked their swiftness, and
halted, like the waves of the sea before an impassable rock.

All the savages, thirsting for blood, were now ranged along the foot
of the mountain, yelling, gesticulating, and brandishing guns and
hatchets; but they did not advance a single foot. Their dogs, like
themselves, as though chained to earth, howled with rage.

What was the difficulty? What invisible power restrained the natives?
The fugitives gazed without comprehending, fearing that the charm that
enchained Kai-Koumou's tribe would dissolve.

Suddenly Captain Mangles uttered a cry that caused his companions to
turn. He pointed to a little fortress at the summit of the peak.

"The tomb of the chief Kara-Tété!" cried Robert.

"Are you in earnest?" asked Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord, it is the tomb; I recognize it."

Robert was right. Fifty feet above, at the extreme point of the
mountain, stood a small palisaded inclosure of freshly-painted stakes.
Glenarvan, likewise, recognized the sepulchre of the Maori chief. In
their wanderings they had come to the top of the Maunganamu, where
Kara-Tété had been buried.

Followed by his companions, he climbed the sides of the peak, to the
very foot of the tomb. A large opening, covered with mats, formed the
entrance. Glenarvan was about to enter, when, all at once, he started
back suddenly.

"A savage!" said he.

"A savage in this tomb?" inquired the major.

"Yes, MacNabb."

"What matter? Let us enter."

Glenarvan, the major, Robert, and Captain Mangles passed into the
inclosure. A Maori was there, clad in a great flax mantle. The darkness
of the sepulchre did not permit them to distinguish his features. He
appeared very calm, and was eating his breakfast with the most perfect
indifference.

Glenarvan was about to address him, when the native, anticipating him,
said, in an amiable tone, and in excellent English:

"Be seated, my dear lord; breakfast is awaiting you."

It was Paganel. At his voice all rushed into the tomb, and gazed with
wonder at the worthy geographer. Paganel was found! The common safety
was represented in him. They were going to question him: they wished
to know how and why he was on the top of the mountain; but Glenarvan
checked this unseasonable curiosity.

"The savages!" said he.

"The savages," replied Paganel, shrugging his shoulders, "are
individuals whom I supremely despise."

"But can they not----?"

"They! the imbeciles! Come and see them."

Each followed Paganel, who issued from the tomb. The Maoris were in the
same place, surrounding the foot of the peak, and uttering terrible
cries.

"Cry and howl till you are tired, miserable creatures!" said Paganel.
"I defy you to climb this mountain!"

"And why?" asked Glenarvan.

"Because the chief is buried here; this tomb protects us, and the
mountain is tabooed."

"Tabooed?"