"Yes, my friends; and that is why I took refuge here, as in one of
those asylums of the Middle Ages, open to unfortunates."

Indeed, the mountain was tabooed, and by this consecration had become
inaccessible by the superstitious savages.

The safety of the fugitives was not yet certain, but there was a
salutary respite, of which they strove to take advantage. Glenarvan, a
prey to unspeakable emotion, did not venture a word; while the major
nodded his head with an air of genuine satisfaction.

"And now, my friends," said Paganel, "if these brutes expect us to test
their patience they are mistaken. In two days we shall be beyond the
reach of these rascals."

"We will escape!" said Glenarvan; "but how?"

"I do not know," replied Paganel, "but we will do so all the same."

All now wished to hear the geographer's adventures. Strangely enough,
in the case of a man loquacious usually, it was necessary to draw,
as it were, the words from his mouth. He, who was so fond of telling
stories, replied only in an evasive way to the questions of his friends.

"Paganel has changed," thought MacNabb.

[Sidenote: THE WORTH OF SPECTACLES.]

Indeed, the countenance of the geographer was no longer the same. He
wrapped himself gloomily in his great flaxen mantle, and seemed to shun
too inquisitive looks. However, when they were all seated around him at
the foot of the tomb, he related his experiences.

After the death of Kara-Tété, Paganel had taken advantage, like Robert,
of the confusion of the natives, and escaped from the pah. But less
fortunate than young Grant, he had fallen upon an encampment of Maoris,
who were commanded by a chief of fine form and intelligent appearance,
who was evidently superior to all the warriors of his tribe. This chief
spoke English accurately, and bade him welcome by rubbing his nose
against that of the geographer. Paganel wondered whether he should
consider himself a prisoner; but seeing that he could not take a step
without being graciously accompanied by the chief, he soon knew how
matters stood on this point.

The chief, whose name was "Hihy" (sunbeam), was not a bad man. The
spectacles and telescope gave him a high opinion of Paganel, whom he
attached carefully to his person, not only by his benefits, but by
strong flaxen ropes, especially at night.

This novel situation lasted three long days. Was he well or badly
treated? Both, as he stated without further explanation. In short, he
was a prisoner, and, except for the prospect of immediate torture,
his condition did not seem more enviable than that of his unfortunate
friends.