Fortunately, last night he succeeded in biting asunder his ropes and
escaping. He had witnessed at a distance the burial of the chief,
knew that he had been interred on the summit of Maunganamu mountain,
and that it was tabooed in consequence. He therefore resolved to take
refuge there, not wishing to leave the place where his companions were
held captives. He succeeded in his undertaking, arrived at Kara-Tété's
tomb, and waited in hope that Providence would in some way deliver his
friends.

Such was Paganel's story. Did he omit designedly any circumstance
of his stay among the natives? More than once his embarrassment led
them to suspect so. However that might be, he received unanimous
congratulations; and as the past was now known, they returned to the
present.

Their situation was still exceedingly critical. The natives, if they
did not venture to climb the mountain, expected that hunger and thirst
would force their prisoners to surrender. It was only a matter of time,
and the savages had great patience. Glenarvan did not disregard the
difficulties of his position, but waited for the favorable issue which
Providence seemed to promise.

And first he wished to examine this improvised fortress; not to defend
it, for an attack was not to be feared, but that he might find a way of
escaping. The major and the captain, Robert, Paganel, and himself, took
the exact bearings of the mountain. They observed the direction of the
paths, their branches and declivities. A ridge a mile in length united
the Maunganamu to the Wahiti range, and then declined to the plain. Its
narrow and winding summit presented the only practicable route, in case
escape should become possible. If the fugitives could pass this point
unperceived, under cover of the night, perhaps they might succeed in
reaching the deep valleys and outwitting the Maoris.

But this course offered more than one danger, as they would have to
pass below within gun-shot. The bullets of the natives on the lower
ramparts of the pah might intercept them, and form a barrier that no
one could safely cross.

Glenarvan and his friends, as soon as they ventured on the dangerous
part of the ridge, were saluted with a volley of shots; but only a
few wads, borne by the wind, reached them. They were made of printed
paper. Paganel picked them up out of curiosity, but it was difficult to
decipher them.

[Sidenote: A STRANGE COLPORTEUR.]

"Why!" said he, "do you know, my friends, what these creatures use for
wads in their guns?"

"No," replied Glenarvan.

"Leaves of the Bible! If this is the use they make of the sacred
writings, I pity the missionaries. They will have difficulty in
founding Maori libraries."

"And what passage of the Scriptures have these natives fired at us?"
asked Glenarvan.

"A mighty promise of God," replied Captain Mangles, who had also read
the paper. "It bids us hope in Him," added the young captain, with the
unshaken conviction of his Scottish faith.

"Read, John," said Glenarvan.