He read this line, which had so strangely reached them:

"Because he hath set his love upon Me, therefore will I deliver him:"
Psalm xci. I.

"My friends," said Glenarvan, "we must make known the words of hope to
our brave and dear ladies. Here is something to reanimate their hearts."

Glenarvan and his companions ascended the steep paths of the peak, and
proceeded towards the tomb, which they wished to examine. On the way
they were astonished to feel, at short intervals, a certain trembling
of the ground. It was not an irregular agitation, but that continued
vibration which the sides of a boiler undergo when it is fully charged.
Steam, in large quantities, generated by the action of subterranean
fires, seemed to be working beneath the crust of the mountain.

This peculiarity could not astonish people who had passed between the
warm springs of the Waikato. They knew that this region of Ika-Na-Maoui
is volcanic. It is like a sieve, from the holes of which ever issue the
vapors of subterranean laboratories.

Paganel, who had already observed this, called the attention of his
friends to the circumstance. The Maunganamu is only one of those
numerous cones that cover the central portion of the island. The least
mechanical action could provoke the formation of a crater in the clayey
soil.

"And yet," said Glenarvan, "we seem to be in no more danger here than
beside the boiler of the Duncan. This crust is firm."

"Certainly," replied the major; "but a boiler, however strong it may
be, will always burst at last after too long use."

"MacNabb," said Paganel, "I do not desire to remain on this peak. Let
Heaven show me a way of escape, and I will leave it instantly."

Lady Helena, who perceived Lord Glenarvan, now approached.

"My dear Edward," said she, "you have considered our position! Are we
to hope or fear?"

"Hope, my dear Helena," replied Glenarvan. "The natives will never come
to the top of the mountain, and we shall have abundant time to form a
plan of escape."

"Moreover, madam," said Captain Mangles, "God himself encourages us to
hope."

So saying, he gave her the text of the Bible which had been sent to
them. She and Mary Grant, whose confiding soul was always open to
the ministrations of Heaven, saw, in the words of the Holy Book, an
infallible pledge of safety.

"Now to the tomb!" cried Paganel, gayly. "This is our fortress, our
castle, our dining-room, and our workshop. No one is to disarrange it.
Ladies, permit me to do the honors of this charming dwelling."

All followed the good-natured Paganel. When the savages saw the
fugitives desecrate anew this tabooed sepulchre, they fired numerous
volleys, and uttered yells no less terrible. But fortunately their
bullets could not reach as far as their cries, for they only came
half-way, while their vociferations were lost in empty air.

[Sidenote: BOARD AND LODGING.]