"So many blessings," added Paganel, in a mirthful tone. "Consider
Kara-Tété's water and provisions, and the fire of the earth! This
mountain is a paradise! I propose that we found a colony here,
cultivate the soil, and settle for the rest of our days. We will
be Robinson Crusoes of Maunganamu. Indeed, I look in vain for any
deficiency on this comfortable peak."

"Nothing is wanting if the earth is firm," replied Captain Mangles.

"Well, it was not created yesterday," said Paganel. "It has long
resisted the action of internal fires, and will easily hold out till
our departure."

"Breakfast is ready," announced Mr. Olbinett, as gravely as if he had
been performing his duties at Malcolm Castle.

The fugitives at once sat down near the palisade, and enjoyed the
repast that Providence had so opportunely furnished to them in this
critical situation. No one appeared particular about the choice of
food, but there was a diversity of opinion concerning the edible
ferns. Some found them sweet and pleasant, and others mucilaginous,
insipid, and acrid. The sweet potatoes, cooked in the hot earth, were
excellent.

Their hunger being satiated, Glenarvan proposed that they should,
without delay, arrange a plan of escape.

"So soon!" said Paganel, in a truly piteous tone. "What! are you
thinking already of leaving this delightful place?"

"I think, first of all," replied Glenarvan, "that we ought to attempt
an escape before we are forced to it by hunger. We have strength enough
yet, and must take advantage of it. To-night let us try to gain the
eastern valleys, and cross the circle of natives under cover of the
darkness."

"Exactly," answered Paganel; "if the Maoris will let us pass."

"And if they prevent us?" asked Captain Mangles.

"Then we will employ the great expedients," said Paganel.

"You have great expedients, then?" inquired the major.

"More than I know what to do with," rejoined Paganel, without further
explanation.

They could now do nothing but wait for night to attempt crossing
the line of savages, who had not left their position. Their ranks
even seemed increased by stragglers from the tribe. Here and there
freshly-kindled fires formed a flaming girdle around the base of the
peak. When darkness had invaded the surrounding valleys, the Maunganamu
seemed to rise from a vast conflagration, while its summit was lost in
a dense shade. Six hundred feet below were heard the tumult and cries
of the enemy's camp.

At nine o'clock it was very dark, and Glenarvan and Captain Mangles
resolved to make an exploration before taking their companions on
this perilous journey. They noiselessly descended the declivity some
distance, and reached the narrow ridge that crossed the line of natives
fifty feet above the encampment.

[Sidenote: ANOTHER SUNRISE.]

All went well so far. The Maoris, stretched beside their fires, did not
seem to perceive the two fugitives, who advanced a few paces farther.
But suddenly, to the left and right of the ridge, a double volley
resounded.

"Back!" cried Glenarvan; "these bandits have eyes like a cat, and the
guns of riflemen!"