The place for the crater was chosen thirty paces from Kara-Tété's tomb.
It was important that this structure should be spared by the eruption,
for otherwise the taboo would become ineffective. Paganel had observed
an enormous block of stone, around which the vapors seemed to pour
forth with considerable force. This rocky mass covered a small natural
crater in the peak, and only by its weight prevented the escape of the
subterranean flames. If they could succeed in overturning it, the smoke
and lava would immediately issue through the unobstructed opening.

[Sidenote: VULCANS AT WORK.]

The fugitives made themselves levers out of the stakes of the tomb, and
with these they vigorously attacked the ponderous mass. Under their
united efforts the rock was not long in moving. They dug a sort of
groove for it down the side of the mountain, that it might slide on an
inclined plane.

As their action increased, the trembling of the earth became more
violent. Hollow rumblings and hissings sounded under the thin
crust. But the bold experimenters, like real Vulcans, governing the
underground fires, worked on in silence. Several cracks and a few gusts
of hot smoke warned them that their position was becoming dangerous.
But a final effort detached the block, which glided down the slope of
the mountain and disappeared.

The thin covering at once yielded. An incandescent column poured forth
towards the sky with loud explosions, while streams of boiling water
and lava rolled towards the encampment of the natives and the valleys
below. The whole peak trembled, and you might almost have thought that
it was disappearing in a general conflagration.

Glenarvan and his companions had scarcely time to escape the shock of
the eruption. They fled to the inclosure of the tomb, but not without
receiving a few scalding drops of the water, which bubbled and exhaled
a strong sulphureous odor.

Then mud, lava, and volcanic fragments mingled in the scene of
devastation. Torrents of flame furrowed the sides of the Maunganamu.
The adjoining mountains glowed in the light of the eruption, and the
deep valleys were illumined with a vivid brightness.

The savages were soon aroused, both by the noise and the heat
of the lava that flowed in a scalding tide through the midst of
their encampment. Those whom the fiery flood had not reached fled,
and ascended the surrounding hills, turning and gazing back at
this terrific phenomenon, with which their god, in his wrath, had
overwhelmed the desecrators of the sacred mountain; while at certain
moments they were heard howling their consecratory cry:

"Taboo! taboo! taboo!"

Meantime an enormous quantity of vapor, melted stones, and lava had
escaped from the crater. It was no longer a simple geyser. All this
volcanic effervescence had hitherto been confined beneath the crust of
the peak, since the outlets of Tangariro sufficed for its expansion;
but as a new opening had been made, it had rushed forth with extreme
violence.