All night long, during the storm that raged above and below, the peak
was shaken with a commotion that could not but alarm Glenarvan. The
prisoners, concealed behind the palisade of the tomb, watched the
fearful progress of the outbreak.

Morning came. The fury of the volcano had not moderated. Thick,
yellowish vapors mingled with the flames, and torrents of lava poured
in every direction. Glenarvan, with eye alert and beating heart,
glanced between the interstices of the inclosure, and surveyed the camp
of the Maoris.

The natives had fled to the neighboring plateaus, beyond the reach of
the volcano. Several corpses, lying at the foot of the peak, had been
charred by the fire. Farther on, towards the pah, the lava had consumed
a number of huts, that were still smoking. The savages, in scattered
groups, were gazing at the vapory summit of Maunganamu with religious
awe.

Kai-Koumou came into the midst of his warriors, and Glenarvan
recognized him. The chief advanced to the base of the peak, on the side
spared by the eruption, but did not cross the first slopes. Here, with
outstretched arms, like a sorcerer exorcising, he made a few grimaces,
the meaning of which did not escape the prisoners. As Paganel had
foreseen, Kai-Koumou was invoking upon the mountain a more rigorous
taboo.

Soon after, the natives descended, in single file, the winding paths
that led towards the pah.

[Sidenote: A WEARY WAITING.]

"They are going!" cried Glenarvan. "They are abandoning their post!
God be thanked! Our scheme has succeeded! My dear Helena, my brave
companions, we are now dead and buried; but this evening we will
revive, we will leave our tomb, and flee from these barbarous tribes!"

It would be difficult to describe the joy that reigned within the
palisade. Hope had reanimated all hearts. These courageous travelers
forgot their past trials, dreaded not the future, and only rejoiced in
their present deliverance; although very little reflection would show
how difficult was the task of reaching an European settlement from
their present position. But if Kai-Koumou was outwitted, they believed
themselves safe from all the savages of New Zealand.

A whole day must pass before the decisive attempt could be made, and
they employed their time in arranging a plan of escape. Paganel had
preserved his map of New Zealand, and could therefore search out the
safest routes.