After some discussion, the fugitives resolved to proceed eastward
towards the Bay of Plenty. This course would lead them through
districts that were very rarely visited. The travelers, who were
already accustomed to overcoming natural difficulties, only feared
meeting the Maoris. They therefore determined to avoid them at all
hazards, and gain the eastern coast, where the missionaries have
founded several establishments. Moreover, this portion of the island
had hitherto escaped the ravages of the war and the depredations of the
natives. As for the distance that separated Lake Taupo from the Bay of
Plenty, it could not be more than one hundred miles. Ten days would
suffice for the journey. The missions once reached, they could rest
there, and wait for some favorable opportunity of gaining Auckland,
their destination.

These points being settled, they continued to watch the savages till
evening. Not one of them remained at the foot of the mountain, and
when darkness invaded the valleys of the lake, no fire betokened the
presence of the Maoris at the base of the peak. The coast was clear.

At nine o'clock it was dark night, and Glenarvan gave the signal for
departure. His companions and he, armed and equipped at Kara-Tété's
expense, began to cautiously descend the slopes of the Maunganamu.
Captain Mangles and Wilson led the way, with eyes and ears on the
alert. They stopped at the least sound,--they examined the faintest
light; each slid down the declivity, the better to elude detection.

Two hundred feet below the summit, Captain Mangles and his sailor
reached the dangerous ridge that had been so obstinately guarded by the
natives. If, unfortunately, the Maoris, more crafty than the fugitives,
had feigned a retreat to entice them within reach, if they had not
been deceived by the eruption, their presence would be discovered
at this point. Glenarvan, in spite of his confidence and Paganel's
pleasantries, could not help trembling. The safety of his friends was
at stake during the few moments necessary to cross the ridge. He felt
Lady Helena's heart beat as she clung to his arm.

But neither he nor Captain Mangles thought of retreating. The young
captain, followed by the others, and favored by the dense obscurity,
crawled along the narrow path, only stopping when some detached stone
rolled to the base of the mountain. If the savages were still in
ambush, these unusual sounds would provoke from each side a formidable
volley.

However, in gliding like serpents along this inclined crest, the
fugitives could not advance rapidly. When Captain Mangles had gained
the lowest part, scarcely twenty-five feet separated him from the
plain where the natives had encamped the night before. Here the ridge
ascended quite steeply towards a coppice about a quarter of a mile
distant.

[Sidenote: TABOOED NO LONGER.]