The travelers crossed this place without accident, and began the
ascent in silence. The thicket was invisible, but they knew where it
was, and, provided no ambuscade was laid there, Glenarvan hoped to
find a secure refuge. However, he remembered that they were now no
longer protected by the taboo. The ascending ridge did not belong to
the sacred mountain, but to a chain that ran along the eastern shores
of Lake Taupo. Therefore not only the shots of the savages, but also a
hand-to-hand conflict, were to be feared.

For a short time the little party slowly mounted towards the upper
elevations. The captain could not yet discern the dark coppice, but it
could not be more than two hundred feet distant.

Suddenly he stopped, and almost recoiled. He thought he heard some
sound in the darkness. His hesitation arrested the advance of his
companions.

He stood motionless long enough to alarm those who followed him. With
what agonizing suspense they waited could not be described. Would they
be forced to return to the summit of the mountain?

But, finding that the noise was not repeated, their leader continued
his ascent along the narrow path. The coppice was soon dimly defined
in the gloom. In a few moments it was reached, and the fugitives were
crouching beneath the thick foliage of the trees.

CHAPTER LIV.

FROM PERIL TO SAFETY.

Darkness favored the escape; and making the greatest possible progress,
they left the fatal regions of Lake Taupo. Paganel assumed the guidance
of the little party, and his marvelous instinct as a traveler was
displayed anew during this perilous journey. He managed with surprising
dexterity in the thick gloom, chose unhesitatingly the almost invisible
paths, and kept constantly an undeviating course.

At nine o'clock in the morning they had accomplished a considerable
distance, and could not reasonably require more of the courageous
ladies. Besides, the place seemed suitable for an encampment. The
fugitives had reached the ravine that separates the Kaimanawa and
Wahiti ranges. The road on the right ran southward to Oberland.
Paganel, with his map in his hand, made a turn to the northeast, and
at ten o'clock the little party had reached a sort of steep buttress,
formed by a spur of the mountain.

The provisions were taken from the sacks, and all did ample justice to
them. Mary Grant and the major, who had not hitherto been very well
satisfied with the edible ferns, made this time a hearty meal of them.
They rested here till two o'clock in the afternoon, then the journey
towards the east was resumed, and at evening the travelers encamped
eight miles from the mountains. They needed no urging to sleep in the
open air.