The next day very serious difficulties were encountered. They were
forced to pass through a curious region of volcanic lakes and geysers
that extends eastward from the Wahiti ranges. It was pleasing to the
eye, but fatiguing to the limbs. Every quarter of a mile there were
obstacles, turns, and windings, far too many for rapid progress; but
what strange appearances and what infinite variety does nature give to
her grand scenes!

[Sidenote: ALMOST TIRED OUT!]

Over this expanse of twenty square miles the overflow of subterranean
forces was displayed in every form. Salt springs, of a singular
transparency, teeming with myriads of insects, issued from the porous
ground. They exhaled a penetrating odor, and deposited on the earth a
white coating like dazzling snow. Their waters, though clear, were
at the boiling-point, while other neighboring springs poured forth
ice-cold streams. On every side water-spouts, with spiral rings of
vapor, spirted from the ground like the jets of a fountain, some
continuous, others intermittent, as if controlled by some capricious
sprite. They rose like an amphitheatre, in natural terraces one above
another, their vapors gradually mingling in wreaths of white smoke; and
flowing down the semi-transparent steps of these gigantic staircases,
they fed the lakes with their boiling cascades.

It will be needless to dilate upon the incidents of the journey, which
were neither numerous nor important. Their way led through forests and
over plains. The captain took his bearings by the sun and stars. The
sky, which was quite clear, was sparing of heat and rain. Still, an
increasing weariness delayed the travelers, already so cruelly tried,
and they had to make great efforts to reach their destination.

However, they still conversed together, but no longer in common. The
little party was divided into groups, not by any narrow prejudice or
ill feeling, but to some extent from sadness. Often Glenarvan was
alone, thinking, as he approached the coast, of the Duncan and her
crew. He forgot the dangers that still threatened him, in his grief for
his lost sailors and the terrible visions that continually haunted his
mind.

They no longer spoke of Harry Grant. And why should they, since they
could do nothing for him? If the captain's name was ever pronounced, it
was in the conversations of his daughter and her betrothed. The young
captain had not reminded her of what she had said to him on the last
night of their captivity on the mountain. His magnanimity would not
take advantage of words uttered in a moment of supreme despair.

[Sidenote: ACCOMPLISHING THE LAST STAGE.]

When he did speak of Captain Grant, he began to lay plans for a further
search. He declared to Mary that Lord Glenarvan would resume this
undertaking, hitherto so unsuccessful.