In ten minutes the boat was at a considerable distance. The sea was
calm. The captain, however, not wishing to wander too far from the
coast, was about to give the order to cruise along the shore, when he
suddenly ceased rowing. He had observed three canoes starting from
Lottin Point, with the evident intention of overtaking and capturing
the unfortunate fugitives.

"To sea! to sea!" cried he; "better perish in the waves than be
captured!"

The canoe, under the strokes of its four oarsmen, at once put to sea,
and for some time kept its distance. But the strength of the weakened
fugitives soon grew less, and their pursuers gradually gained upon
them. The boats were now scarcely a mile apart. There was therefore
no possibility of avoiding the attack of the natives, who, armed with
their long guns, were already preparing to fire.

[Sidenote: DEATH ON EVERY HAND.]

What was Glenarvan doing? Standing at the stern of the canoe, he looked
around as if for some expected aid. What did he expect? What did he
wish? Had he a presentiment?

All at once his face brightened, his hand was stretched towards an
indistinct object.

"A ship!" cried he; "my friends, a ship! Row, row!"

Not one of the four oarsmen turned to see this unexpected vessel,
for they must not lose a stroke. Only Paganel, rising, directed his
telescope towards the place indicated.

"Yes," said he, "a ship, a steamer, under full headway, coming towards
us! Courage, captain!"

The fugitives displayed new energy, and for several moments longer they
kept their distance. The steamer grew more and more distinct. They
could clearly discern her masts, and the thick clouds of black smoke
that issued from her smoke-stack. Glenarvan, giving the helm to Robert,
had seized the geographer's glass, and did not lose a single movement
of the vessel.

But what were Captain Mangles and his companions to think when they
saw the expression of his features change, his face grow pale, and the
instrument fall from his hands. A single word explained this sudden
emotion.

"The Duncan!" cried Glenarvan,--"the Duncan and the convicts!"

"The Duncan?" repeated the captain, dropping his oar and rising.

"Yes, death on all sides!" moaned Glenarvan, overcome by so many
calamities.

It was indeed the yacht--without a doubt,--the yacht, with her crew of
bandits! The major could not repress a malediction. This was too much.

Meantime the canoe was floating at random. Whither should they guide
it, whither flee? Was it possible to choose between the savages and the
convicts?

[Sidenote: A MYSTERIOUS PRESERVATION.]

Just then a shot came from the native boat, that had approached nearer.
The bullet struck Wilson's oar; but his companions still propelled
the canoe towards the Duncan. The yacht was advancing at full speed,
and was only half a mile distant. Captain Mangles, beset on all sides,
no longer knew how to act, or in what direction to escape. The two poor
ladies were on their knees, praying in their despair.