The savages were now firing a continued volley, and the bullets rained
around the canoe. Just then a sharp report sounded, and a ball from the
yacht's cannon passed over the heads of the fugitives, who remained
motionless between the fire of the Duncan and the natives.

Captain Mangles, frantic with despair, seized his hatchet. He was on
the point of sinking their own canoe, with his unfortunate companions,
when a cry from Robert stopped him.

"Tom Austin! Tom Austin!" said the child. "He is on board! I see him!
He has recognized us! He is waving his hat!"

The hatchet was suspended in mid-air. A second ball whistled over
their heads, and demolished the nearest of the three canoes, while a
loud hurrah was heard on board the Duncan. The savages fled in terror
towards the coast.

"Help, help, Tom!" cried Captain Mangles, in a piercing voice. And
a few moments afterwards the ten fugitives, without knowing how, or
scarcely comprehending this unexpected good fortune, were all in safety
on board the Duncan.

CHAPTER LV.

WHY THE DUNCAN WENT TO NEW ZEALAND.

The feelings of Glenarvan and his friends, when the songs of old
Scotland resounded in their ears, it is impossible to describe. As soon
as they set foot on deck the bagpiper struck up a well remembered air,
while hearty hurrahs welcomed the owner's return on board. Glenarvan,
John Mangles, Paganel, Robert, and even the major, wept and embraced
each other. Their emotions rose from joy to ecstasy. The geographer was
fairly wild, skipping about and watching with his inseparable telescope
the canoes returning to shore.

But at sight of Glenarvan and his companions, with tattered garments,
emaciated features, and the traces of extreme suffering, the crew
ceased their lively demonstrations. These were spectres, not the bold
and dashing travelers whom, three months before, hope had stimulated to
a search for the shipwrecked captain. Chance alone had led them back to
this vessel that they had ceased to regard as theirs, and in what a sad
state of exhaustion and feebleness!

However, before thinking of fatigue, or the imperative calls of hunger
and thirst, Glenarvan questioned Tom Austin concerning his presence in
these waters. Why was the Duncan on the eastern coast of New Zealand?
Why was she not in the hands of Ben Joyce? By what providential working
had God restored her to the fugitives? These were the questions that
were hurriedly addressed to Tom Austin. The old sailor did not know
which to answer first. He therefore concluded to listen only to Lord
Glenarvan, and reply to him.

"But the convicts?" inquired Glenarvan. "What have you done with the
convicts?"

"The convicts!" replied Tom Austin, like a man who is at a loss to
understand a question.

"Yes; the wretches who attacked the yacht."

"What yacht, my lord? The Duncan?"

"Of course. Did not Ben Joyce come on board?"

"I do not know Ben Joyce; I have never seen him."