"Never?" cried Glenarvan, amazed at the answers of the old sailor.
"Then will you tell me why the Duncan is now on the shores of New
Zealand?"

[Sidenote: MYSTERY MORE MYSTERIOUS!]

Although Glenarvan and his friends did not at all understand Austin's
astonishment, what was their surprise when he replied, in a calm voice:

"The Duncan is here by your lordship's orders."

"By my orders?" cried Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord. I only conformed to the instructions contained in your
letter."

"My letter?" exclaimed Glenarvan.

The ten travelers at once surrounded Tom Austin, and gazed at him in
eager curiosity. The letter written at the Snowy River had reached the
Duncan.

"Well," continued Glenarvan, "let us have an explanation; for I almost
think I am dreaming. You received a letter, Tom?"

"Yes; a letter from your lordship."

"At Melbourne?"

"At Melbourne; just as I had finished the repair of the ship."

"And this letter?"

"It was not written by you; but it was signed by you, my lord."

"Exactly; it was sent by a convict, Ben Joyce."

"No; by the sailor called Ayrton, quartermaster of the Britannia."

"Yes, Ayrton or Ben Joyce; it is the same person. Well, what did the
letter say?"

"It ordered me to leave Melbourne without delay, and come to the
eastern shores of----"

"Australia!" cried Glenarvan, with an impetuosity that disconcerted the
old sailor.

"Australia?" repeated Tom, opening his eyes. "No, indeed; New Zealand!"

"Australia, Tom! Australia!" replied Glenarvan's companions, with one
voice.

Austin was now bewildered. Glenarvan spoke with such assurance, that
he feared he had made a mistake in reading the letter. Could he,
faithful and accurate sailor that he was, have committed such a
blunder? He began to feel troubled.

"Be easy, Tom," said Lady Helena. "Providence has decreed----"

"No, madam, pardon me," returned the sailor; "no, it is not possible! I
am not mistaken. Ayrton also read the letter, and he, on the contrary,
wished to go to Australia."

"Ayrton?" cried Glenarvan.

"The very one. He maintained that it was a mistake, and that you had
appointed Twofold Bay as the place of meeting."

"Have you the letter, Tom?" asked the major, greatly puzzled.

"Yes, Mr. MacNabb," replied Austin. "I will soon bring it."

He accordingly repaired to his own cabin. While he was gone, they gazed
at each other in silence, except the major, who, with his eye fixed
upon Paganel, said, as he folded his arms:

"Indeed, I must confess, Paganel, that this is a little too much."

At this moment Austin returned. He held in his hand the letter written
by Paganel, and signed by Glenarvan.

"Read it, my lord," said the old sailor.

Glenarvan took the letter, and read:

"Order for Tom Austin to put to sea, and bring the Duncan to the
eastern coast of New Zealand."

"New Zealand?" cried Paganel, starting.

He snatched the letter from Glenarvan's hands, rubbed his eyes,
adjusted his spectacles to his nose, and read in his turn.

"New Zealand!" repeated he, in an indescribable tone, while the letter
slipped from his fingers.