Just then he felt a hand fall upon his shoulder. He turned, and found
himself face to face with the major.

[Sidenote: PAGANEL IN THE WITNESS-BOX.]

"Well, my good Paganel," said MacNabb, in a grave tone, "it is
fortunate that you did not send the Duncan to Cochin-China."

This sally finished the poor geographer. A fit of laughter seized the
whole crew. Paganel, as if mad, ran to and fro, holding his head in his
hands, and tearing his hair. However, when he had recovered from his
frenzy, there was still another unavoidable question to answer.

"Now, Paganel," said Glenarvan, "be candid. I acknowledge that your
absent-mindedness has been providential. To be sure, without you the
Duncan would have fallen into the hands of the convicts; without you we
should have been recaptured by the Maoris. But do tell me, what strange
association of ideas, what unnatural aberration, induced you to write
New Zealand instead of Australia?"

"Very well," said Paganel. "It was----"

But at that moment his eyes fell upon Robert and Mary Grant, and he
stopped short, finally replying:

"Never mind, my dear Glenarvan. I am a madman, a fool, an incorrigible
being, and shall die a most famous blunderer!"

The affair was no longer discussed. The mystery of the Duncan's
presence there was solved; and the travelers, so miraculously saved,
thought only of revisiting their comfortable cabins and partaking of a
good breakfast.

However, leaving Lady Helena, Mary Grant, the major, Paganel, and
Robert to enter the saloon, Glenarvan and Captain Mangles retained Tom
Austin with them. They wished to question him further.

"Now, Tom," said Glenarvan, "let me know: did not this order to sail
for the coast of New Zealand seem strange to you?"

"Yes, my lord," replied Austin. "I was very much surprised; but, as I
am not in the habit of discussing the orders I receive, I obeyed. Could
I act otherwise? If any accident had happened from not following your
instructions, should I not have been to blame? Would you have done
differently, captain?"

"No, Tom," answered Captain Mangles.

"But what did you think?" asked Glenarvan.

"I thought, my lord, that, in the cause of Captain Grant, it was
necessary to go wherever you directed me; that by some combination of
circumstances another vessel would take you to New Zealand, and that
I was to wait for you on the eastern coast of the island. Moreover,
on leaving Melbourne, I kept my destination secret, and the crew did
not know it till we were out at sea and the shores of Australia had
disappeared from sight. But then an incident occurred that perplexed me
very much."

"What do you mean, Tom?" inquired Glenarvan.

"I mean," he replied, "that when the quartermaster, Ayrton, learned,
the day after our departure, the Duncan's destination----"

"Ayrton!" cried Glenarvan. "Is he on board?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Ayrton here!" repeated Glenarvan, glancing at Captain Mangles.

"Wonderful indeed!" said the young captain.