In an instant, with the swiftness of lightning, Ayrton's conduct, his
long-contrived treachery, Glenarvan's wound, the attack upon Mulready,
their sufferings in the marshes of the Snowy, all the wretch's deeds,
flashed upon the minds of the two men. And now, by a strange fatality,
the convict was in their power.

"Where is he?" asked Glenarvan quickly.

"In a cabin in the forecastle," replied Tom Austin, "closely guarded."

"Why this confinement?"

[Sidenote: AN UNOFFICIAL TRIBUNAL.]

"Because, when Ayrton saw that the yacht was sailing for New Zealand,
he flew into a passion; because he attempted to force me to change the
ship's course; because he threatened me; and, finally, because he urged
my men to a mutiny. I saw that he was a dangerous person, and was
compelled, therefore, to take precautions against him."

"And since that time?"

"Since that time he has been in his cabin, without offering to come
out."

"Good!"

At this moment Glenarvan and Captain Mangles were summoned to the
saloon. Breakfast, which they so much needed, was ready. They took
seats at the table, but did not speak of Ayrton.

However, when the meal was ended, and the passengers had assembled on
deck, Glenarvan informed them of the quartermaster's presence on board.
At the same time he declared his intention of sending for him.

"Can I be released from attending this tribunal?" asked Lady Helena.
"I confess to you, my dear Edward, that the sight of this unfortunate
would be very painful to me."

"It is only to confront him, Helena," replied Glenarvan. "Remain,
if you can. Ben Joyce should see himself face to face with all his
intended victims."

Lady Helena yielded to this request, and Mary Grant and she took their
places beside him, while around them stood the major, Paganel, Captain
Mangles, Robert, Wilson, Mulready, and Olbinett, all who had suffered
so severely by the convict's treason. The crew of the yacht, who did
not yet understand the seriousness of these proceedings, maintained a
profound silence.

"Call Ayrton!" said Glenarvan.

CHAPTER LVI.

AYRTON'S OBSTINACY.

Ayrton soon made his appearance. He crossed the deck with a confident
step, and ascended the poop-stairs. His eyes had a sullen look, his
teeth were set, and his fists clinched convulsively. His bearing
displayed neither exultation nor humility. As soon as he was in Lord
Glenarvan's presence, he folded his arms, and calmly and silently
waited to be questioned:

"Ayrton," said Glenarvan, "here we all are, as you see, on board the
Duncan, that you would have surrendered to Ben Joyce's accomplices."

At these words the lips of the quartermaster slightly trembled. A quick
blush colored his hard features,--not the sign of remorse, but the
shame of defeat. He was prisoner on this yacht that he had meant to
command as master, and his fate was soon to be decided.

However, he made no reply. Glenarvan waited patiently, but Ayrton still
persisted in maintaining an obstinate silence.

"Speak, Ayrton; what have you to say?" continued Glenarvan.