The convict hesitated, and the lines of his forehead were strongly
contracted. At last he said, in a calm voice:

"I have nothing to say, my lord. I was foolish enough to let myself be
taken. Do what you please."

[Sidenote: A DUMB PRISONER.]

Having given his answer, the quartermaster turned his eyes toward
the coast that extended along the west, and affected a profound
indifference for all that was passing around him. You would have
thought, to look at him, that he was a stranger to this serious affair.

But Glenarvan had resolved to be patient. A powerful motive urged
him to ascertain certain circumstances of Ayrton's mysterious life,
especially as regarded Harry Grant and the Britannia. He therefore
resumed his inquiries, speaking with extreme mildness, and imposing the
most perfect calmness upon the violent agitation of his heart.

"I hope, Ayrton," continued he, "that you will not refuse to answer
certain questions that I desire to ask you. And, first, am I to call
you Ayrton or Ben Joyce? Are you the quartermaster of the Britannia?"

Ayrton remained unmoved, watching the coast, deaf to every question.
Glenarvan, whose eye flashed with some inward emotion, continued to
question him.

"Will you tell me how you left the Britannia, and why you were in
Australia?"

There was the same silence, the same obstinacy.

"Listen to me, Ayrton," resumed Glenarvan. "It is for your interest to
speak. We may reward a frank confession, which is your only resort. For
the last time, will you answer my questions?"

Ayrton turned his head towards Glenarvan, and looked him full in the
face.

"My lord," said he, "I have nothing to answer. It is for justice to
prove against me."

"The proofs will be easy," replied Glenarvan.

[Sidenote: USELESS APPEALS.]

"Easy, my lord?" continued the quartermaster, in a sneering tone.
"Your lordship seems to me very hasty. I declare that the best judge
in Westminster Hall would be puzzled to establish my identity. Who can
say why I came to Australia, since Captain Grant is no longer here to
inform you? Who can prove that I am that Ben Joyce described by the
police, since they have never laid hands upon me, and my companions are
at liberty? Who, except you, can charge me, not to say with a crime,
but even with a culpable action?"

Ayrton had grown animated while speaking, but soon relapsed into his
former indifference. He doubtless imagined that this declaration would
end the examination: but Glenarvan resumed, and said:

"Ayrton, I am not a judge charged with trying you. This is not my
business. It is important that our respective positions should be
clearly defined. I ask nothing that can implicate you, for that is the
part of justice. But you know what search I am pursuing, and, with a
word, you can put me on the track I have lost. Will you speak?"

Ayrton shook his head, like a man determined to keep silent.

"Will you tell me where Captain Grant is?" asked Glenarvan.

"No, my lord."