"Will you point out where the Britannia was wrecked?"

"Certainly not."

"Ayrton," said Glenarvan, in almost a suppliant tone, "will you, at
least, if you know where Captain Grant is, tell his poor children, who
are only waiting for a word from your lips?"

The quartermaster hesitated; his features quivered; but, in a low
voice, he muttered:

"I cannot, my lord."

Then, as if he reproached himself for a moment's weakness, he added,
angrily:

"No, I will not speak! Hang me if you will!"

"Hang, then!" cried Glenarvan, overcome by a sudden feeling of
indignation.

But finally controlling himself, he said, in a grave voice:

"There are neither judges nor hangmen here. At the first landing-place
you shall be put into the hands of the English authorities."

"Just what I desire," replied the quartermaster.

Thereupon he was taken back to the cabin that served as his prison, and
two sailors were stationed at the door, with orders to watch all his
movements. The witnesses of this scene retired indignant and in despair.

Since Glenarvan had failed to overcome Ayrton's obstinacy, what was
to be done? Evidently to follow the plan formed at Eden, of returning
to England, and resuming hereafter this unsuccessful enterprise, for
all traces of the Britannia now seemed irrevocably lost. The document
admitted of no new interpretation. There was no other country on the
line of the thirty-seventh parallel, and the only way was to sail for
home.

He consulted his friends, and more especially Captain Mangles, on the
subject of return. The captain examined his store-rooms. The supply
of coal would not last more than fifteen days. It was, therefore,
necessary to replenish the fuel at the first port. He accordingly
proposed to Glenarvan to sail for Talcahuana Bay, where the Duncan had
already procured supplies before undertaking her voyage. This was a
direct passage. Then the yacht, with ample provisions, could double
Cape Horn, and reach Scotland by way of the Atlantic.

This plan being adopted, the engineer was ordered to force on steam.
Half an hour afterwards the yacht was headed towards Talcahuana, and at
six o'clock in the evening the mountains of New Zealand had disappeared
beneath the mists of the horizon.

[Sidenote: WOMANLY INFLUENCE.]