For two long hours this kind and gentle Scotch lady remained alone face
to face with the chief of the convicts. Glenarvan, a prey to nervous
agitation, lingered near the cabin, now determined to thoroughly
exhaust the chances of success, and now upon the point of drawing his
wife away from this painful and prolonged interview.

But this time, when Lady Helena reappeared, her features inspired
confidence. Had she, then, brought this secret to light, and stirred
the dormant feeling of pity in the heart of this poor creature?

MacNabb, who saw her first, could not repress a very natural feeling
of incredulity. However, the rumor soon spread among the crew that the
quartermaster had at length yielded to Lady Helena's entreaties. All
the sailors assembled on deck more quickly than if Tom Austin's whistle
had summoned them.

"Has he spoken?" asked Lord Glenarvan of his wife.

"No," replied Lady Helena; "but in compliance with my entreaties he
desires to see you."

"Ah, dear Helena, you have succeeded!"

"I hope so, Edward."

"Have you made any promise that I am to sanction?"

"Only one: that you will use all your influence to moderate the fate in
store for him." [Sidenote: VERY BUSINESS-LIKE.]

"Certainly, my dear Helena. Let him come to me immediately."

Lady Helena retired to her cabin, accompanied by Mary Grant, and the
quartermaster was taken to the saloon where Glenarvan awaited him.

CHAPTER LVII.

A DISCOURAGING CONFESSION.

As soon as the quartermaster was in Lord Glenarvan's presence his
custodians retired.

"You desired to speak to me, Ayrton?" said Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord," replied he.

"To me alone?"

"Yes; but I think that if Major MacNabb and Mr. Paganel were present at
the interview it would be better."

"For whom?"

"For me."

Ayrton spoke calmly. Glenarvan gazed at him steadily, and then sent
word to MacNabb and Paganel, who at once obeyed his summons.

"We are ready for you," said Glenarvan, as soon as his two friends were
seated at the cabin-table.

Ayrton reflected for a few moments, and then said:

"My lord, it is customary for witnesses to be present at every contract
or negotiation between two parties. That is why I requested the
presence of Mr. Paganel and Major MacNabb; for, properly speaking, this
is a matter of business that I am going to propose to you."

Glenarvan, who was accustomed to Ayrton's manners, betrayed no
surprise, although a matter of business between this man and himself
seemed strange.

[Sidenote: BARGAINING FOR TERMS.]

"What is this business?" said he.

"This is it," replied Ayrton. "You desire to know from me certain
circumstances which may be useful to you. I desire to obtain from you
certain advantages which will be valuable to me. Now, I will make an
exchange, my lord. Do you agree or not?"

"What are these circumstances?" asked Paganel, quickly.

"No," corrected Glenarvan: "what are these advantages?"

Ayrton bowed, showing that he understood the distinction.