"These," said he, "are the advantages for which I petition. You
still intend, my lord, to deliver me into the hands of the English
authorities?"

"Yes, Ayrton; it is only justice."

"I do not deny it," replied the quartermaster. "You would not consent,
then, to set me at liberty?"

Glenarvan hesitated before answering a question so plainly asked.
Perhaps the fate of Harry Grant depended upon what he was about to say.
However, the feeling of duty towards humanity prevailed, and he said:

"No, Ayrton, I cannot set you at liberty."

"I do not ask it," replied the quartermaster, proudly.

"What do you wish, then?"

"An intermediate fate, my lord, between that which you think awaits me
and the liberty that you cannot grant me."

"And that is----?"

"To abandon me on one of the desert islands of the Pacific, with the
principal necessaries of life. I will manage as I can, and repent, if I
have time."

Glenarvan, who was little prepared for this proposal, glanced at his
two friends, who remained silent. After a few moments of reflection, he
replied:

"Ayrton, if I grant your request, will you tell me all that it is for
my interest to know?"

"Yes, my lord; that is to say, all that I know concerning Captain Grant
and the Britannia."

"The whole truth?"

"The whole."

"But who will warrant----?"

"Oh, I see what troubles you, my lord. You do not like to trust to
me,--to the word of a malefactor! That is right. But what can you do?
The situation is thus. You have only to accept or refuse."

"I will trust you, Ayrton," said Glenarvan, simply.

"And you will be right, my lord. Moreover, if I deceive you, you will
always have the power to revenge yourself."

"How?"

"By recapturing me on this island, from which I shall not be able to
escape."

Ayrton had a reply for everything. He met all difficulties, and
produced unanswerable arguments against himself. As was seen, he
strove to treat in his business with good faith. It was impossible for
a person to surrender with more perfect confidence, and yet he found
means to advance still further in this disinterested course.

"My lord and gentlemen," added he, "I desire that you should be
convinced that I am honorable. I do not seek to deceive you, but am
going to give you a new proof of my sincerity in this affair. I act
frankly, because I rely upon your loyalty."

"Go on, Ayrton," replied Glenarvan.

"My lord, I have not yet your promise to agree to my proposition, and
still I do not hesitate to tell you that I know little concerning Harry
Grant."

"Little!" cried Glenarvan.

"Yes, my lord; the circumstances that I am able to communicate to
you are relative to myself. They are personal experiences, and will
scarcely tend to put you on the track you have lost."

[Sidenote: REVELATIONS AND DISCLOSURES.]