A keen disappointment was manifest on the features of Glenarvan and
the major. They had believed the quartermaster to possess an important
secret, and yet he now confessed that his disclosures would be almost
useless.

However that may be, this avowal of Ayrton, who surrendered himself
without security, singularly affected his hearers, especially when he
added, in conclusion:

"Thus you are forewarned, my lord, that the business will be less
advantageous for you than for me."

"No matter," replied Glenarvan; "I accept your proposal, Ayrton. You
have my word that you shall be landed at one of the islands of the
Pacific."

"Very well, my lord," said he.

Was this strange man pleased with this decision? You might have doubted
it, for his impassive countenance betrayed no emotion. He seemed as if
acting for another more than for himself.

"I am ready to answer," continued he.

"We have no questions to ask you," rejoined Glenarvan. "Tell us what
you know, Ayrton, and, in the first place, who you are."

"Gentlemen," replied he, "I am really Tom Ayrton, quartermaster of the
Britannia. I left Glasgow in Captain Grant's ship on the 12th of March,
1861. For fourteen months we traversed together the Pacific, seeking
some favorable place to found a Scottish colony. Harry Grant was a man
capable of performing great deeds, but frequently serious disputes
arose between us. His character did not harmonize with mine. I could
not yield; but with Harry Grant, when his resolution is taken, all
resistance is impossible. He is like iron towards himself and others.
However, I dared to mutiny, and attempted to involve the crew and gain
possession of the vessel. Whether I did right or wrong is of little
importance. However it may be, Captain Grant did not hesitate to land
me, April 8, 1862, on the west coast of Australia."

"Australia!" exclaimed the major, interrupting Ayrton's story. "Then
you left the Britannia before her arrival at Callao, where the last
news of her was dated?"

"Yes," replied the quartermaster; "for the Britannia never stopped at
Callao while I was on board. If I spoke of Callao at O'Moore's farm, it
was your story that gave me this information."

"Go on, Ayrton," said Glenarvan.

[Sidenote: MORE BLANKS THAN PRIZES.]