The major was the first to resume the examination, in order to
determine the dates relative to the Britannia.

"It was the 8th of April, 1862, then, that you were landed on the west
coast of Australia?" he asked of the quartermaster.

"Exactly," replied Ayrton.

"And do you know what Captain Grant's plans were then?"

"Vaguely."

"Continue, Ayrton," said Glenarvan. "The least sign may set us on the
track."

"What I can say is this, my lord. Captain Grant intended to visit New
Zealand. But this part of his programme was not carried out while I was
on board. The Britannia might, therefore, after leaving Callao, have
gained the shores of New Zealand. This would agree with the date, June
27, 1862, given in the document as the time of the shipwreck."

"Evidently," remarked Paganel.

"But," added Glenarvan, "there is nothing in these half-obliterated
portions of the document which can apply to New Zealand."

"That I cannot answer," said the quartermaster.

"Well, Ayrton," continued Glenarvan, "you have kept your word, and I
will keep mine. We will decide on what island of the Pacific you shall
be abandoned."

"Oh, it matters little to me," answered Ayrton.

"Return to your cabin now, and await our decision."

The quartermaster retired, under guard of the two sailors.

"This villain might have been a great man," observed the major.

"Yes," replied Glenarvan. "He has a strong and self-reliant character.
Why must his abilities be devoted to crime?"

"But Harry Grant?"

"I fear that he is forever lost! Poor children! who could tell them
where their father is?"

"I!" cried Paganel.

As we have remarked, the geographer, although so loquacious and
excitable usually, had scarcely spoken during Ayrton's examination. He
had listened in total silence. But this last word that he had uttered
was worth more than all the others, and startled Glenarvan at once.

"You, Paganel!" he exclaimed; "do you know where Captain Grant is?"

"As well as can be known," answered the geographer.

"And how do you know?"

"By that everlasting document."

[Sidenote: A GEOGRAPHER'S REMINISCENCES.]

"Ah!" said the major, in a tone of the most thorough incredulity.

"Listen first, MacNabb, and shrug your shoulders afterwards. I did
not speak before, because you would not have believed me. Besides, it
was useless. But if I speak to-day, it is because Ayrton's opinion
corroborates mine."

"Then New Zealand----?" asked Glenarvan.