"Now, Paganel," said Glenarvan, "will you tell me why, for about two
months, you kept this interpretation secret?"

[Sidenote: UNANIMITY IN DESPAIR.]

"Because I did not wish to give you vain hopes. Besides, we were going
to Auckland, which is on the very latitude of the document."

"But afterwards, when we were taken out of our course, why did you not
speak?"

"Because, however just this interpretation may be, it cannot contribute
to the captain's rescue."

"Why, Paganel?"

"Because, admitting that Captain Grant was wrecked on the coast of New
Zealand, as long as he has not made his appearance for two years since
the disaster, he must have fallen a victim to the sea or the savages."

"Then your opinion is----?" asked Glenarvan.

"That we might perhaps find some traces of the shipwreck, but that the
seamen of the Britannia have perished."

"Keep all this silent, my friends," replied Glenarvan, "and leave me to
choose the time for telling this sad news to the children of Captain
Grant."

CHAPTER LVIII.

A CRY IN THE NIGHT.

The crew soon learned that Ayrton's disclosures had not thrown light
upon the situation of Captain Grant. The despair on board was profound,
for they had relied on the quartermaster, who, however, knew nothing
that could put the Duncan on the track of the Britannia. The yacht
therefore continued on the same course, and the only question now was
to choose the island on which to leave Ayrton.

Paganel and Captain Mangles consulted the maps on board. Exactly on
the thirty-seventh parallel was an island, generally known by the
name of Maria Theresa, a lone rock in the midst of the Pacific, three
thousand five hundred miles from the American coast, and one thousand
five hundred miles from New Zealand. No ship ever came within hail of
this solitary isle; no tidings from the world ever reached it. Only the
storm-birds rested here during their long flights, and many maps do not
even indicate its position.

If anywhere absolute isolation was to be found on earth, it was here,
afar from the ocean's traveled highways. Its situation was made known
to Ayrton, who consented to live there; and the vessel was accordingly
headed towards the island. Two days later the lookout hailed land on
the horizon. It was Maria Theresa, low, long, and scarcely emerging
from the waves, appearing like some enormous sea-monster. Thirty miles
still lay between it and the yacht, whose prow cut the waves with
such speed that soon the island grew distinct. The sun, now sinking
towards the west, defined its outlines in glowing light. Several slight
elevations were tinged with the last rays of the day.

At five o'clock Captain Mangles thought he distinguished a faint smoke
rising towards the sky.

"Is that a volcano?" he inquired of Paganel, who, with his telescope,
was examining the land.

"I do not know what to think," replied the geographer. "Maria Theresa
is a point little known. However, I should not be surprised if its
origin was due to some volcanic upheaval."