"But then," said Glenarvan, "if an eruption created it, may we not fear
that the same agency will destroy it?"

"That is scarcely probable," answered Paganel. "Its existence has
been known for several centuries; and this seems a guarantee for its
continuance."

"Well," continued Glenarvan, "do you think, captain, that we can land
before night?"

[Sidenote: ANOTHER ARTIFICIAL VOLCANO.]

"No, certainly not. I ought not to endanger the Duncan in the darkness,
on a coast that is not familiar to me. I will keep a short distance
from land, and to-morrow at daybreak we will send a boat ashore."

At eight o'clock Maria Theresa, although only five miles to windward,
appeared like a lengthened shadow, scarcely visible. An hour later,
quite a bright light, like a fire, blazed in the darkness. It was
motionless and stationary.

"That would seem to indicate a volcano," said Paganel, watching it
attentively.

"However," replied Captain Mangles, "at this distance we ought to hear
the commotion that always accompanies an eruption, and yet the wind
brings no sound to our ears."

"Indeed," observed Paganel, "this volcano glows, but does not
speak. You might say that it throws out intermittent flashes like a
lighthouse."

"You are right," continued Captain Mangles; "and yet we are not on the
illuminated side. Ha!" cried he, "another fire! On the shore this time!
See! it moves, it changes its place!"

He was not mistaken. A new light had appeared, that sometimes seemed to
go out, and then all at once flash forth again.

"Is the island inhabited?" asked Glenarvan.

"Evidently, by savages," replied Paganel.

"Then we cannot abandon the quartermaster here."

"No," said the major; "that would be giving even savages too dangerous
a present."

"We will seek some other deserted island," resumed Glenarvan, who could
not help smiling at MacNabb's delicacy. "I promised Ayrton his life,
and I will keep my promise."

"At all events, let us beware," added Paganel. "The New Zealanders have
the barbarous custom of misleading ships by moving fires. The natives
of Maria Theresa may understand this deception."

"Bear away a point," cried the captain to the sailor at the helm.
"To-morrow, at sunrise, we shall know what is to be done."

At eleven o'clock the passengers and the captain retired to their
cabins. At the bow the first watch was pacing the deck, while at the
stern the helmsman was alone at his post.

In the stillness Mary and Robert Grant came on deck. The two children,
leaning upon the railing, gazed sadly at the phosphorescent sea and the
luminous wake of the yacht. Mary thought of Robert's future; Robert
thought of his sister's; both thought of their father. Was that beloved
parent still living? Yet must they give him up? But no, what would life
be without him? What would become of them without his protection? What
would have become of them already, except for the magnanimity of Lord
and Lady Glenarvan?

The boy, taught by misfortune, divined the thoughts that were agitating
his sister. He took her hand in his.