"Mary," said he, "we must never despair. Remember the lessons our
father taught us. 'Courage compensates for everything in this world,'
he said. Let us have that indomitable courage that overcomes all
obstacles. Hitherto you have labored for me, my sister, but now I shall
labor for you."

"Dear Robert!" replied the young girl.

"I must tell you one thing," continued he. "You will not be sorry,
Mary?"

"Why should I be sorry, my child?"

"And you will let me do as I wish?"

"What do you mean?" asked she, anxiously.

"My sister, I shall be a sailor----!"

"And leave me?" cried the young girl, clasping her brother's hand.

[Sidenote: EULOGY AND THRENODY.]

"Yes, sister, I shall be a sailor, like my father, and like Captain
John. Mary, my dear Mary, he has not lost all hope! You will have, like
me, confidence in his devotion. He has promised that he will make me a
thorough and efficient sailor, and we shall seek our father together.
Say that you are willing, sister. What our father would have done for
us it is our duty, or mine at least, to do for him. My life has but one
object, to which it is wholly devoted,--to search always for him who
would never have abandoned either of us. Dear Mary, how good our father
was!"

"And so noble, so generous!" added Mary. "Do you know, Robert, that he
was already one of the glories of our country, and would have ranked
among its great men if fate had not arrested his course?"

"How well I know it!" answered Robert.

Mary pressed her brother to her heart, and the child felt tears
dropping upon his forehead.

"Mary! Mary!" cried he, "it is in vain for them to speak, or to keep
silent. I hope still, and shall always do so. A man like our father
does not die till he has accomplished his purpose!"

Mary Grant could not reply; sobs choked her utterance. A thousand
emotions agitated her soul at the thought that new attempts would be
made to find her father, and that the young captain's devotion was
boundless.

"Does Mr. John still hope?" asked she.

"Yes," replied Robert. "He is a brother who will never forsake us. I
shall be a sailor, shall I not, sister,--a sailor to seek my father
with him? Are you willing?"

"Yes," said Mary. "But must we be separated?"

"You will not be alone, Mary, I know. John has told me so. Lady Helena
will not permit you to leave her. You are a woman, and can and ought to
accept her benefits. To refuse them would be ungrateful. But a man, as
my father has told me a hundred times, ought to make his own fortune."

"But what will become of our house at Dundee, so full of associations?"