"We will keep it, my sister. All that has been well arranged by our
friend John and Lord Glenarvan, who will keep you at Malcolm Castle
like a daughter. He said so to John, who told me. You will be at home
there, and wait till John and I bring back our father. Ah, what a
joyful day that will be!" cried Robert, whose face was radiant with
enthusiasm.

"My brother, my child!" exclaimed Mary, "how happy our father would be
if he could hear you! How much you resemble him, dear Robert! When you
are a man you will be quite like him!"

"God grant it, Mary!" said Robert, glowing with holy and filial pride.

"But how shall we pay our debt to Lord and Lady Glenarvan?" continued
Mary.

"Oh, that will not be difficult," answered Robert, with his boyish
impulsiveness. "We will tell them how much we love and respect them,
and we will show it to them by our actions."

"That is all we can do!" added the young girl, covering her brother's
face with kisses; "and all that they will like, too!"

Then, relapsing into reveries, the two children of the captain gazed
silently into the shadowy obscurity of the night. However, in fancy
they still conversed, questioned, and answered each other. The sea
rocked the ship in silence, and the phosphorescent waters glistened in
the darkness.

But now a strange, a seemingly supernatural event took place. The
brother and sister, by one of those magnetic attractions that
mysteriously draw the souls of friends together, experienced at the
same instant the same curious hallucination.

[Sidenote: "METHOUGHT, THE BILLOWS SPOKE!"]

From the midst of these alternately brightening and darkening waves,
they thought they heard a voice issue, whose depth of sadness stirred
every fibre of their hearts.

"Help! help!" cried the voice.

"Mary," said Robert, "did you hear?"

And, raising their heads above the bulwarks, they both gazed
searchingly into the misty shadows of the night. Yet there was nothing
but the darkness stretching blankly before them.

"Robert," said Mary, pale with emotion, "I thought--yes, I thought like
you."

At this moment another cry reached them, and this time the illusion was
such that these words broke simultaneously from both their hearts:

"My father! my father!"

This was too much for Mary Grant. Overcome by emotion, she sank
senseless into her brother's arms.

"Help!" cried Robert. "My sister! my father! help!"

The man at the helm hastened to Miss Grant's assistance, and after
him the sailors of the watch, Captain Mangles, Lady Helena, and Lord
Glenarvan, who had been suddenly awakened.

"My sister is dying, and my father is yonder!" exclaimed Robert,
pointing to the waves.

No one understood his words.

"Yes," repeated he, "my father is yonder! I heard his voice, and Mary
did too!"

Just then Mary Grant recovered consciousness, and, looking wildly
around, cried:

"My father, my father is yonder!"

The unfortunate girl arose, and, leaning over the bulwark, would have
thrown herself into the sea.