"My lord! Madam!" repeated she, clasping her hands, "I tell you my
father is there! I declare to you that I heard his voice issue from the
waves like a despairing wail, like a last adieu!"

[Sidenote: THE POSITIVENESS OF DISBELIEF.]

Then her feelings overcame the poor girl, and she became insensible.
They carried her to her cabin, and Lady Helena followed, to minister to
her wants, while Robert kept repeating:

"My father! my father is there! I am sure of it, my lord!"

The witnesses of this sorrowful scene perceived at last that the two
children had been the sport of an hallucination. But how undeceive
their senses, which had been so strongly impressed? Glenarvan, however,
attempted it, and taking Robert by the hand, said:

"You heard your father's voice, my dear boy?"

"Yes, my lord. Yonder, in the midst of the waves, he cried, 'Help!
help!'"

"And you recognized the voice?"

"Did I recognize it? Oh, yes, I assure you! My sister heard and
recognized it, too. How could both of us be deceived? My lord, let us
go to his rescue. A boat! a boat!"

Glenarvan saw plainly that he could not undeceive the poor child.
Still, he made a last attempt, and called the helmsman.

"Hawkins," asked he, "you were at the wheel when Miss Grant was so
singularly affected?"

"Yes, my lord," replied Hawkins.

"And you did not see or hear anything?"

"Nothing."

"You see how it is, Robert."

"If it had been _his_ father," answered the lad, with irrepressible
energy, "he would not say so. It was _my_ father, my lord! my father,
my father----!"

Robert's voice was choked by a sob. Pale and speechless, he, too, like
his sister, lost consciousness. Glenarvan had him carried to his bed,
and the child, overcome by emotion, sank into a profound slumber.

"Poor orphans!" said Captain Mangles; "God tries them in a terrible
way!"

"Yes," replied Glenarvan, "excessive grief has produced upon both at
the same moment a similar effect."

"Upon both!" murmured Paganel. "That is strange!"

Then, leaning forward, after making a sign to keep still, he listened
attentively. The silence was profound everywhere. Paganel called in a
loud voice, but there was no answer.

"It is strange!" repeated the geographer, returning to his cabin; "an
intimate sympathy of thought and grief does not suffice to explain this
mystery."

Early the next morning the passengers (and among them were Robert
and Mary, for it was impossible to restrain them) were assembled
on deck. All wished to examine this land, which had been scarcely
distinguishable the night before. The principal points of the island
were eagerly scanned. The yacht coasted along about a mile from the
shore, and the unassisted eye could easily discern the larger objects.

Suddenly Robert uttered a cry. He maintained that he saw two men
running and gesticulating, while a third was waving a flag.

"Yes: the flag of England!" cried Captain Mangles, when he had used his
glass.

"It is true!" said Paganel, turning quickly towards Robert.