"My lord!" exclaimed the boy, trembling with excitement,--"my lord, if
you do not wish me to swim to the island, you will lower a boat! Ah, my
lord, if you please, I do wish to be the first to land!"

[Sidenote: A COMPENSATION FOR ALL.]

No one knew what to say. Were there three men, shipwrecked sailors,
Englishmen, on that island? All recalled the events of the night
before, and thought of the voice heard by Robert and Mary. Perhaps,
after all, they were not mistaken. A voice might have reached them.
But could this voice be that of their father? No, alas, no! And each,
thinking of the terrible disappointment that was probably in store,
trembled lest this new trial would exceed their strength. But how
restrain them? Lord Glenarvan had not the courage.

"Lower the boat!" cried he.

In a moment this was done; the two children, Glenarvan, Captain
Mangles, and Paganel stepped into it, and six earnest and skilled
oarsmen sped away towards the shore.

At ten yards therefrom, Mary uttered again the heart-rending cry:

"My father!"

A man was standing on the beach between two others. His form was tall
and stout, while his weather-beaten yet pleasant countenance betrayed
a strong resemblance to the features of Mary and Robert Grant. It was,
indeed, the man whom the children had so often described. Their hearts
had not deceived them. It was their father, it was Captain Grant!

He heard his daughter's cry, he opened his arms, and supported her
fainting form.

CHAPTER LIX.

CAPTAIN GRANT'S STORY.

Joy does not kill, for the long lost father and his recovered children
were soon rejoicing together and preparing to return to the yacht. But
how can we depict that scene, so little looked for by any? Words are
powerless.

[Sidenote: THE JOYS OF REUNION.]

As soon as he gained the deck, Harry Grant sank upon his knees. The
pious Scotchman, on touching what was to him the soil of his country,
wished, first of all, to thank God for his deliverance. Then, turning
towards Lady Helena; Lord Glenarvan, and their companions, he thanked
them in a voice broken by emotion. While on their way to the yacht, his
children had briefly told him the story of the Duncan.

How great a debt of gratitude did he feel that he owed this noble woman
and her companions! From Lord Glenarvan down to the lowest sailor,
had not all struggled and suffered for him? Harry Grant expressed
the feelings of thankfulness that overflowed his heart with so much
simplicity and nobleness, and his manly countenance was illumined by so
pure and sincere a sentiment, that all felt themselves repaid for the
trials they had undergone. Even the imperturbable major's eye was wet
with a tear that he could not repress. As for Paganel, he wept like a
child who does not think of hiding his emotion.