Captain Grant could not cease gazing at his daughter. He found her
beautiful and charming, and told her so again and again, appealing
to Lady Helena as if to be assured that his fatherly love was not
mistaken. Then, turning to his son, he cried rapturously:

"How he has grown! He is a man!"

He lavished upon these two beings, so dearly loved, the thousand
expressions of love that had been unuttered during long years of
absence. Robert introduced him successively to all his friends. All had
alike proved their kindness and good wishes towards the two orphans.
When Captain Mangles came to be introduced, he blushed like a young
girl, and his voice trembled as he saluted Mary's father.

Lady Helena then told the story of the voyage, and made the captain
proud of his son and daughter. He learned the exploits of the young
hero, and how the boy had already repaid part of his obligation to Lord
Glenarvan at the peril of his life. Captain Mangles' language to Mary
and concerning her was so truly loving, that Harry Grant, who had been
already informed on this point by Lady Helena, placed the hand of his
daughter in that of the noble young captain, and, turning towards Lord
and Lady Glenarvan, said:

"My lord and lady, join with me to bless our children!"

It was not long before Glenarvan related Ayrton's story to the captain,
who confirmed the quartermaster's declaration in regard to his having
been abandoned on the Australian coast.

"He is a shrewd and courageous man," added he; "but his passions have
ruined him. May meditation and repentance lead him to better feelings!"

But before Ayrton was transferred to Tabor Island, Harry Grant wished
to show his new friends the bounds of his habitation. He invited them
to visit his house, and sit for once at his table. Glenarvan and his
companions cordially accepted the invitation, and Robert and Mary
were not a little desirous to see those haunts where their father had
doubtless at times bewailed his fate. A boat was manned, and the whole
party soon disembarked on the shores of the island.

A few hours sufficed to traverse Captain Grant's domain. It was in
reality the summit of a submarine mountain, covered with basaltic rocks
and volcanic fragments. When the shipwrecked seamen of the Britannia
took refuge here, the hand of man began to control the development of
nature's resources, and in two years and a half the captain and his
companions had completely metamorphosed their island home.

The visitors at last reached the house, shaded by verdant gum-trees,
while before its windows stretched the glorious sea, glittering in
the rays of the sun. Harry Grant set his table in the shade, and all
took seats around it. Some cold roast meat, some of the produce of the
breadfruit-tree, several bowls of milk, two or three bunches of wild
chicory, and pure, fresh water, formed the elements of the simple but
healthful repast. Paganel was in ecstasies. It recalled his old idea of
Robinson Crusoe.