"It was on the night of the 26th of June, 1862, that the Britannia,
disabled by a six days' tempest, was wrecked on the rock of Maria
Theresa. The sea was so high that to save anything was impossible,
and all the crew perished except my two sailors, Bob Learce and Joe
Bell, and myself; and we succeeded in reaching the coast after many
struggles. The land that we thus reached was only a desert island, two
miles wide and five long, with a few trees in the interior, some meadow
land, and a spring of fresh water that, fortunately, has never ceased
to flow. Alone with my two sailors, in this quarter of the globe, I did
not despair, but, placing my confidence in God, engaged in a resolute
struggle. Bob and Joe, my companions and friends in misfortune,
energetically aided my efforts. We began, like Robinson Crusoe, by
collecting the fragments of the vessel, some tools, a little powder,
several weapons, and a bag of precious seeds. The first weeks were very
toilsome, but soon hunting and fishing furnished us subsistence, for
wild goats swarmed in the interior of the island, and marine animals
abounded on its coast. Gradually our daily routine was regularly
organized. I determined our exact situation by my instruments, which
I had saved from the shipwreck. We were out of the regular course of
ships, and could not be rescued except by a providential interposition. Although thinking of those who were dear to me, and whom I never
expected to see again, still I accepted this trial with fortitude, and
my most earnest prayers were for my two children. Meantime we labored
resolutely. Much of the land was sown with the seeds taken from the
Britannia; and potatoes, chicory, sorrel, and other vegetables improved
and varied our daily food. We caught several goats, which were easily
kept, and had milk and butter. The breadfruit-tree, which grew in the
dry creeks, furnished us with a sort of nourishing bread, and the
wants of life no longer gave us any alarm. We built a house out of the
fragments of the Britannia, covered it with sails, carefully tarred,
and under this shelter the rainy season was comfortably passed. Here
many plans were discussed, and many dreams enjoyed, the best of which
has just been realized! At first I thought of braving the sea in a
boat made of the wreck of the vessel; but a vast distance separated us
from the nearest land. No boat could have endured so long a voyage. I therefore abandoned my design, and no longer expected deliverance,
except through a Divine interposition. Ah, my poor children, how many
times, on the rocks of the coast, have we waited for ships at sea! During the entire period of our exile only two or three sails appeared
on the horizon, and these soon to disappear again. Two years and a half
passed thus. We no longer hoped, but still did not wholly despair.