They returned to the vessel; and, as he expected to sail the same day,
Glenarvan gave orders for the quartermaster's landing. Ayrton was
brought on deck, and found himself in the presence of Harry Grant.

"It is I, Ayrton," said he.

"Yes, captain," replied Ayrton, without betraying any astonishment at
Harry Grant's appearance. "Well, I am not sorry to see you again in
good health."

"It seems, Ayrton, that I made a mistake in landing you on an inhabited
coast."

"It seems so, captain."

"You will take my place on this desert island. May Heaven lead you to
repentance!"

"May it be so," rejoined Ayrton, in a calm tone.

Then Glenarvan, addressing the quartermaster, said:

"Do you still adhere, Ayrton, to this determination to be abandoned?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Does Tabor Island suit you?"

"Perfectly."

"Now listen to my last words. You will be far removed from every land,
and deprived of all communication with your fellow-men. Miracles are
rare, and you will not probably remove from this island, where we leave
you. You will be alone, under the eye of God, who reads the uttermost
depths of all hearts; but you will not be lost, as was Captain Grant.
However unworthy you may be of the remembrance of men, still they will
remember you. I know where you are, and will never forget you."

"Thank you, my lord!" replied Ayrton, simply.

Such were the last words exchanged between Glenarvan and the
quartermaster. The boat was ready, and Ayrton embarked. Captain Mangles
had previously sent to the island several cases of preserved food, some
clothes, tools, weapons, and a supply of powder and shot. The abandoned
man could therefore employ his time to advantage. Nothing was wanting,
not even books, foremost among which was a Bible.

The hour for separation had come. The crew and passengers stood on
deck. More than one felt the heart strangely moved. Lady Helena and
Mary Grant could not repress their emotion.

"Must it then be so?" inquired the young wife of her husband. "Must
this unfortunate be abandoned?"

[Sidenote: "FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL!"]

"He must, Helena," answered Glenarvan. "It is his punishment."

At this moment the boat, commanded by Captain Mangles, started. Ayrton
raised his hat and gave a grave salute. Glenarvan and the crew returned
this last farewell, as if to a man about to die, as he departed, in a
profound silence.

On reaching the shore, Ayrton leaped upon the sand, and the boat
returned. It was then four o'clock in the afternoon, and from the upper
deck the passengers could see the quartermaster, with folded arms,
standing motionless as a statue, on a rock, and gazing at the vessel.

"Shall we start, my lord?" asked Captain Mangles.

"Yes, John," replied Glenarvan, quickly, with more emotion than he
wished to manifest.

"All right!" cried the captain to the engineer.

The steam hissed, the screw beat the waves, and at eight o'clock the
last summits of Tabor Island disappeared in the shadows of the night.

CHAPTER LX.

PAGANEL'S LAST ENTANGLEMENT.