Eleven days after leaving Tabor Island the Duncan came in sight of the
Australian coast, and anchored in Talcahuana Bay. Five months had elapsed
since her departure from this port, during which time the travelers
had made the circuit of the world on this thirty-seventh parallel.
Their efforts had not been in vain, for they had found the shipwrecked
survivors of the Britannia.

The Duncan, having taken in her necessary stores, skirted the coasts
of Patagonia, doubled Cape Horn, and steamed across the Atlantic. The
voyage was very uneventful. The yacht carried a full complement of
happy people; there seemed to be no secrets on board.

A mystery, however, still perplexed MacNabb. Why did Paganel always
keep hermetically incased in his clothes, and wear a comforter over
his ears? The major longed to know the motive for this singular fancy.
But in spite of his questions, hints, and suspicions, Paganel did not
unbutton his coat.

At last, fifty-three days after leaving Talcahuana, Captain Mangles
descried the lighthouse of Cape Clear. The vessel entered St. George's
Channel, crossed the Irish Sea, and passed into the Frith of Clyde. At
eleven o'clock they anchored at Dumbarton, and early in the afternoon
the travelers reached Malcolm Castle, amidst the hurrahs of their
tenantry and friends.

Thus it was that Harry Grant and his two companions were rescued, and
that John Mangles married Mary Grant in the old cathedral of St. Mungo,
where the Rev. Mr. Morton, who nine months before had prayed for the
rescue of the father, now blessed the union of the daughter with one
of his deliverers. It was arranged that Robert should be a sailor,
like his father and brother-in-law, and that he should continue the
contemplated project of the former, under the munificent patronage of
Lord Glenarvan.

But was Jacques Paganel to die a bachelor? Certainly not; for, after
his heroic exploits, the worthy geographer could not escape celebrity.
His eccentricities (and his abilities) made him much talked of in
Scotland. People seemed as though they could not show him enough
attention.

Just at this time an amiable lady of thirty, none other than the
major's cousin, a little eccentric herself, but still agreeable and
charming, fell in love with the geographer's peculiarities. Paganel was
far from being insensible to Miss Arabella's attractions, yet did not
dare to declare his sentiments. The major accordingly undertook the
part of Cupid's messenger between these two congenial hearts, and even
told Paganel that marriage was "the last blunder" that he could commit.
But the geographer was very much embarrassed, and, strangely enough,
could not summon courage to speak for himself.

"Does not Miss Arabella please you?" MacNabb would say to him.

"Oh, major, she is charming!" cried Paganel,--"a thousand times too
charming for me; and, if I must tell you, would please me better if she
were less so. I should like to find a defect."

"Be easy," answered the major; "she has more than one. The most perfect
woman always has her share. Well, then, Paganel, are you decided?"