Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Jen Haines and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Transcriber's Note: Inconsistencies in spelling e.g. color/colour,
neighbor/neighbour have been left as in the original.

THE . BLUE . BIRD
     FOR CHILDREN

THE . WONDERFUL . ADVENTURES
    OF . TYLTYL . AND . MYTYL . IN
    SEARCH . OF . HAPPINESS

BY
    GEORGETTE LEBLANC
    [MADAME MAURICE MAETERLINCK]

EDITED AND ARRANGED FOR SCHOOLS
    BY
    FREDERICK ORVILLE PERKINS

TRANSLATED BY
    ALEXANDER TEIXEIRA DE MATTOS

SILVER . BURDETT & COMPANY
    BOSTON . NEW YORK . CHICAGO . ATLANTA
    DALLAS . SAN FRANCISCO

This School Edition of The Blue
    Bird for Children is affectionately
    dedicated to the School Children
    of America

Georgette Leblanc
    (Madame Maurice Maeterlinck)

_To The Teacher_

"The Blue Bird, inhabitant of the
         _Pays Bleu_, the fabulous blue country
         of our dreams is an ancient symbol
         in the folk lore of Lorraine and
         stands for happiness."

One of the strongest pieces of imaginative writing for children that
the past decade has produced and one of the most delicate and
beautiful of all times, is "The Blue Bird," by Maurice Maeterlinck,
written as a play, and very successfully produced on the stage.

Georgette Leblanc (Madame Maurice Maeterlinck), has rendered this play
in story form for children, under the title "The Children's Blue
Bird," and in this form it has now been carefully edited and arranged
for schools.

Maurice Maeterlinck was born in Ghent, Belgium, August 29, 1862.
Although trained for the practice of the law and moderately successful
in it, he very early became dissatisfied with the prospect of a career
at the bar. In 1887, the young man moved to Paris and turned his
attention to writing. Shortly after, at the death of his father,
Maeterlinck returned to Belgium where he has since resided most of the
time. His career as an author practically began in 1889, when he
published two plays. At this time he was quite unknown, except to a
small circle, but soon, because of his remarkable originality, we find
him being called "The Belgian Shakespeare," and his reputation firmly
established.

Amidst his Belgian roses he continued to work and dream, and upon his
youthful dreams he built his plays. They are all shadowy, brief
transcripts of emotion, and illustrate beautifully his unity of
purpose, of mood and of thought. Whether in philosophy, drama or
poetry, Maeterlinck is exclusively occupied in revealing or indicating
the mystery which lies only just out of sight beneath the ordinary
life. In order to produce this effect of the mysterious he aims at
extreme simplicity of style and a very realistic symbolism. He allows
life itself to astonish us by its strangeness, by its inexplicable
elements. Many of his plays are really pathetic records of unseen
emotions.

Of all his writings, it is conceded that "The Blue Bird" makes the
strongest appeal to children. Maeterlinck has always had much in
common with the young. He has the child's mysticism and awe of the
unknown, the same delight in mechanical inventions, the same gift of
"making believe."