Night sat up, all quivering. Her immense wings beat
          around her; and she questioned Tylette in a
          trembling voice                                      68

Wagging her head and stopping every minute to cough,
          sneeze and blow her nose                             74

A wonderful garden lay before him, a dream-garden
          filled with flowers that shone like stars            80

Light's servants were very odd                         90

Other Blue Children opened great big books             98

Other Blue Children unfolded maps and plans, or
          brought enormous flowers                            102

And, in a moment, the Blue Children were crowding
          round the tall old man                              110

The Cat at once draped her cloak round her, opened
          the door and ran and bounded out into the forest    119

A regular waterfall of tears came gushing from her
          eyes, flooding all around her                       154

Closely pursued by the Dog, who overwhelmed her
          with bites, blows and kicks                         162

"It's the Blue Bird we were looking for! We have
          been miles and miles and miles and he was here
          all the time!"                                      174

CHAPTER I

THE WOODCUTTER'S COTTAGE

Once upon a time, a woodcutter and his wife lived in their cottage on
the edge of a large and ancient forest. They had two dear little
children who met with a most wonderful adventure.

But, before telling you all about it, I must describe the children to
you and let you know something of their character; for, if they had
not been so sweet and brave and plucky, the curious story which you
are about to hear would never have happened at all.

Tyltyl--that was our hero's name--was ten years old; and Mytyl, his
little sister, was only six.

Tyltyl was a fine, tall little fellow, stout and well-set-up, with
curly black hair which was often in a tangle, for he was fond of a
romp. He was a great favorite because of his smiling and good-tempered
face and the bright look in his eyes; but, best of all, he had the
ways of a bold and fearless little man, which showed the noble
qualities of his heart. When, early in the morning, he trotted along
the forest-road by the side of his daddy, Tyl the woodcutter, for all
his shabby clothes he looked so proud and gallant that every beautiful
thing on the earth and in the sky seemed to lie in wait for him to
smile upon him as he passed.

His little sister was very different, but looked ever so sweet and
pretty in her long frock, which Mummy Tyl kept neatly patched for her.
She was as fair as her brother was dark; and her large timid eyes were
blue as the forget-me-nots in the fields. Anything was enough to
frighten her and she would cry at the least thing; but her little
child soul already held the highest womanly qualities: she was loving
and gentle and so fondly devoted to her brother that, rather than
abandon him, she did not hesitate to undertake a long and dangerous
journey in his company.