"It's snowing!" said Tyltyl. "There are two carriages, with six horses
each!"

"There are twelve little boys getting out!" said Mytyl, who was doing
her best to peep out of the window.

"Don't be silly!... They're little girls...."

"They've got knickerbockers on...."

"Do be quiet!... And look!..."

"What are those gold things there, hanging from the branches?"

"Why, toys, to be sure!" said Tyltyl. "Swords, guns, soldiers,
cannons...."

"And what's that, all round the table?"

"Cakes and fruit and cream-tarts."

"Oh, how pretty the children are!" cried Mytyl, clapping her hands.

"And how they're laughing and laughing!" answered Tyltyl.

"And the little ones dancing!..."

"Yes, yes; let's dance too!" shouted Tyltyl.

And the two Children began to stamp their feet for joy on the stool:

"Oh, what fun!" said Mytyl.

"They're getting the cakes!" cried Tyltyl. "They can touch them!...
They're eating, they're eating, they're eating!... Oh, how lovely, how
lovely!..."

Mytyl began to count imaginary cakes:

"I have twelve!..."

"And I four times twelve!" said Tyltyl. "But I'll give you some...."

And our little friends, dancing, laughing and shrieking with delight,
rejoiced so prettily in the other children's happiness that they
forgot their own poverty and want. They were soon to have their
reward. Suddenly, there came a loud knocking at the door. The startled
Children ceased their romp and dared not move a limb. Then the big
wooden latch lifted of itself, with a loud creak; the door opened
slowly; and in crept a little old woman, dressed all in green, with a
red hood over her head. She was hump-backed and lame and had only one
eye; her nose and chin almost touched; and she walked leaning on a
stick. She was surely a fairy.

She hobbled up to the Children and asked, in a snuffling voice:

"Have you the grass here that sings or the bird that is blue?"

"We have some grass," replied Tyltyl, trembling all over his body,
"but it can't sing...."

"Tyltyl has a bird," said Mytyl.

"But I can't give it away, because it's mine," the little fellow
added, quickly.

Now wasn't that a capital reason?

The Fairy put on her big, round glasses and looked at the bird:

"He's not blue enough," she exclaimed. "I must absolutely have the
Blue Bird. It's for my little girl, who is very ill.... Do you know
what the Blue Bird stands for? No? I thought you didn't; and, as you
are good children, I will tell you."

The Fairy raised her crooked finger to her long, pointed nose, and
whispered, in a mysterious tone:

"The Blue Bird stands for happiness; and I want you to understand
that my little girl must be happy in order to get well. That is why I
now command you to go out into the world and find the Blue Bird for
her. You will have to start at once.... Do you know who I am?"