Peeping anxiously through the beautiful gold lace that edged the
Fairy's cloak, the Children saw a tall, red fellow looking at them and
laughing at their fears. He was dressed in scarlet tights and
spangles; from his shoulders hung silk scarves that were just like
flames when he waved them with his long arms; and his hair stood up on
his head in straight, flaring locks. He started flinging out his arms
and legs and jumping round the room like a madman.

Tyltyl, though feeling a little easier, dared not yet leave his
refuge. Then the Fairy Berylune had a capital idea: she pointed her
wand at the tap; and at once there appeared a young girl who wept like
a regular fountain. It was Water. She was very pretty, but she looked
extremely sad; and she sang so sweetly that it was like the rippling
of a spring. Her long hair, which fell to her feet, might have been
made of sea-weed. She had nothing on but her bed-gown; but the water
that streamed over her clothed her in shimmering colours. She
hesitated at first and gave a glance around her; then, catching sight
of Fire still whirling about like a great madcap, she made an angry
and indignant rush at him, spraying his face, splashing and wetting
him with all her might. Fire flew into a rage and began to smoke.
Nevertheless, as he found himself suddenly thwarted by his old enemy,
he thought it wiser to retire to a corner. Water also beat a retreat;
and it seemed as though peace would be restored once more.

The two Children, at last recovering from their alarm, were asking the
Fairy what was going to happen next, when a startling noise of
breaking crockery made them look round towards the table. What a
surprise! The milk-jug lay on the floor, smashed into a thousand
fragments, and from the pieces rose a charming lady, who gave little
screams of terror and clasped her hands and turned up her eyes with a
beseeching glance.

Tyltyl hastened to console her, for he at once knew that she was Milk;
and, as he was very fond of her, he gave her a good kiss. She was as
fresh and pretty as a little dairy-maid; and a delicious scent of hay
came from her white frock all covered with cream.