After making all the fuss he wanted of the Children, he started going
the round of the company, distributing the attentions which he thought
that none could do without. His joy, now set free, found vent without
restraint; and, because he was the most loving of creatures, he would
also have been the happiest, if, in becoming human, he had not,
unfortunately, retained his little doggy failings. He was jealous! He
was terribly jealous; and his heart felt a pang when he saw Tylette,
the Cat, coming to life in her turn and being petted and kissed by the
Children, just as he had been! Oh, how he hated the Cat! To bear the
sight of her beside him, to see her always sharing in the affection of
the family: that was the great sacrifice which fate demanded of him.
He accepted it, however, without a word, because it pleased his little
gods; and he went so far as to leave her alone. But he had had many a
crime on his conscience because of her! Had he not, one evening, crept
stealthily into Goody Berlingot's kitchen in order to throttle her old
tom-cat, who had never done him any harm? Had he not broken the back
of the Persian cat at the Hall opposite? Did he not sometimes go to
town on purpose to hunt cats and put an end to them, all to wreak his
spite? And now Tylette was going to talk, just like himself! Tylette
would be his equal in the new world that was opening before him!

"Oh, there is no justice left on earth!" was his bitter thought.
"There is no justice left!"

In the meantime, the Cat, who had begun by washing herself and
polishing her claws, calmly put out her paw to the little girl.

She really was a very pretty cat; and, if our friend Tylo's jealousy
had not been such an ugly feeling, we might almost have overlooked it
for once! How could you fail to be attracted by Tylette's eyes, which
were like topaz set in emeralds? How could you resist the pleasure of
stroking the wonderful black velvet back? How could you not love her
grace, her gentleness and the dignity of her poses?

Smiling gently and speaking in well-chosen language, she said to
Mytyl:

"Good-morning, miss!... How well you look this morning!..."

And the Children patted her like anything.

Tylo kept watching the Cat from the other end of the room:

"Now that she's standing on her hind-legs like a man," he muttered,
"she looks just like the Devil, with her pointed ears, her long tail
and her dress as black as ink!" And he could not help growling between
his teeth. "She's also like the village chimney-sweep," he went on,
"whom I loathe and detest and whom I shall never take for a real man,
whatever my little gods may say.... It's lucky," he added, with a
sigh, "that I know more about a good many things than they do!"