But suddenly, no longer able to master himself, he flew at the Cat and
shouted, with a loud laugh that was more like a roar:

"I'm going to frighten Tylette! Bow, wow, wow!"

But the Cat, who was dignified even when still an animal, now thought
herself called to the loftiest destinies. She considered that the time
had come to raise a tall barrier between herself and the Dog, who had
never been more than an ill-bred person in her eyes; and, stepping
back in disdain, she just said:

"Sir, I don't know you."

Tylo gave a bound under the insult, whereupon the Cat bristled up,
twisting her whiskers under her little pink nose (for she was very
proud of those two pale blotches which gave a special touch to her
dark beauty); and then, arching her back and sticking up her tail, she
hissed out, "Fft! Fft!" and stood stock-still on the chest of drawers,
like a dragon on the lid of a Chinese vase.

Tyltyl and Mytyl screamed with laughter; but the quarrel would
certainly have had a bad ending if, at that moment, a great thing had
not happened. At eleven o'clock in the evening, in the middle of that
winter's night, a great light, the light of the noon-day sun, glowing
and dazzling, burst into the cottage.

"Hullo, there's daylight!" said the little boy, who no longer knew
what to make of things. "What will Daddy say?"

But, before the Fairy had time to set him right, Tyltyl understood;
and, full of wonderment, he knelt before the latest vision that
bewitched his eyes.

At the window, in the center of a great halo of sunshine, there rose
slowly, like a tall golden sheaf, a maiden of surpassing loveliness!
Gleaming veils covered her figure without hiding its beauty; her bare
arms, stretched in the attitude of giving, seemed transparent; and her
great clear eyes wrapped all upon whom they fell in a fond embrace.

"It's the Queen!" said Tyltyl.

"It's a Fairy Princess!" cried Mytyl, kneeling beside her brother.

"No, my Children," said the Fairy. "It is Light!"

Smiling, Light stepped towards the two little ones. She, the Light of
Heaven, the strength and beauty of the Earth, was proud of the humble
mission entrusted to her; she, never before held captive, living in
space and bestowing her bounty upon all alike, consented to be
confined, for a brief spell, within a human shape, so as to lead the
Children out into the world and teach them to know that other Light,
the Light of the Mind, which we never see, but which helps us to see
all things that are.

"It is Light!" exclaimed the Things and the Animals; and, as they all
loved her, they began to dance around her with cries of pleasure.

Tyltyl and Mytyl capered with joy. Never had they pictured so amusing
and so pretty a party; and they shouted louder than all the rest.