Then what was bound to happen came. Suddenly, three knocks were heard
against the wall, loud enough to throw the house down! It was Daddy
Tyl, who had been waked up by the din and who was now threatening to
come and put a stop to it.

"Turn the diamond!" cried the Fairy to Tyltyl.

Our hero hastened to obey, but he had not the knack of it yet;
besides, his hand shook at the thought that his father was coming. In
fact, he was so awkward that he nearly broke the works.

"Not so quick, not so quick!" said the Fairy. "Oh dear, you've turned
it too briskly: they will not have time to resume their places and we
shall have a lot of bother!"

There was a general stampede. The walls of the cottage lost their
splendour. All ran hither and thither, to return to their proper
shape: Fire could not find his chimney; Water ran about looking for
her tap; Sugar stood moaning in front of his torn wrapper; and Bread,
the biggest of the loaves, was unable to squeeze into his pan, in
which the other loaves had jumped higgledy-piggledy, taking up all the
room. As for the Dog, he had grown too large for the hole in his
kennel; and the Cat also could not get into her basket. The Hours
alone, who were accustomed always to run faster than Man wished, had
slipped back into the clock without delay.

Light stood motionless and unruffled, vainly setting an example of
calmness to the others, who were all weeping and wailing around the
Fairy:

"What is going to happen?" they asked. "Is there any danger?"

"Well," said the Fairy, "I am bound to tell you the truth: all those
who accompany the two Children will die at the end of the journey."

They began to cry like anything, all except the Dog, who was delighted
at remaining human as long as possible and who had already taken his
stand next to Light, so as to be sure of going in front of his little
master and mistress.

At that moment, there came a knocking even more dreadful than before.

"There's Daddy again!" said Tyltyl. "He's getting up, this time; I can
hear him walking...."

"You see," said the Fairy, "you have no choice now; it is too late;
you must all start with us.... But you, Fire, don't come near anybody;
you, Dog, don't tease the Cat; you, Water, try not to run all over the
place; and you, Sugar, stop crying, unless you want to melt. Bread
shall carry the cage in which to put the Blue Bird; and you shall all
come to my house, where I will dress the Animals and the Things
properly.... Let us go out this way!"