As she spoke, she pointed her wand at the window, which lengthened
magically downwards, like a door. They all went out on tip-toe, after
which the window resumed its usual shape. And so it came about that,
on Christmas Night, in the clear light of the moon, while the bells
rang out lustily, proclaiming the birth of Jesus, Tyltyl and Mytyl
went in search of the Blue Bird that was to bring them happiness.

CHAPTER II

AT THE FAIRY'S

The Fairy Berylune's Palace stood at the top of a very high mountain,
on the way to the moon. It was so near that, on summer nights, when
the sky was clear, you could plainly see the moon's mountains and
valleys, lakes and seas from the terrace of the palace. Here the Fairy
studied the stars and read their secrets, for it was long since the
Earth had had anything to teach her.

"This old planet no longer interests me!" she used to say to her
friends, the giants of the mountain. "The men upon it still live with
their eyes shut! Poor things, I pity them! I go down among them now
and then, but it is out of charity, to try and save the little
children from the fatal misfortune that awaits them in the darkness."

This explains why she had come and knocked at the door of Daddy Tyl's
cottage on Christmas Eve.

And now to return to our travellers. They had hardly reached the
high-road, when the Fairy remembered that they could not walk like
that through the village, which was still lit up because of the
feast. But her store of knowledge was so great that all her wishes
were fulfilled at once. She pressed lightly on Tyltyl's head and
willed that they should all be carried by magic to her palace. Then
and there, a cloud of fireflies surrounded our companions and wafted
them gently towards the sky. They were at the Fairy's palace before
they had recovered from their surprise.

"Follow me," she said and led them through chambers and passages all
in gold and silver.

They stopped in a large room surrounded with mirrors on every side and
containing an enormous wardrobe with light creeping through its
chinks. The Fairy Berylune took a diamond key from her pocket and
opened the wardrobe. One cry of amazement burst from every throat.
Precious stuffs were seen piled one on the top of the other: mantles
covered with gems, dresses of every sort and every country, pearl
coronets, emerald necklaces, ruby bracelets.... Never had the Children
beheld such riches! As for the Things, their state was rather one of
utter bewilderment; and this was only natural, when you think that
they were seeing the world for the first time and that it showed
itself to them in such a queer way.