The Fairy helped them make their choice. Fire, Sugar and the Cat
displayed a certain decision of taste. Fire, who only cared for red,
at once chose a splendid bright red dress, with gold spangles. He put
nothing on his head, for his head was always very hot. Sugar could not
stand anything except white and pale blue: bright colors jarred on his
sweet nature. The long blue and white dress which he selected and the
pointed hat, like a candle extinguisher, which he wore on his head
made him look perfectly ridiculous; but he was too silly to notice it
and kept spinning before the glass like a top and admiring himself in
blissful ignorance.

The Cat, who was always a lady and who was used to her dusky garments,
reflected that black always looks well, in any circumstance,
particularly now, when they were travelling without luggage. She
therefore put on a suit of black tights, with jet embroidery, hung a
long velvet cloak from her shoulders and perched a large cavalier hat,
with a long feather, on her neat little head. She next asked for a
pair of soft kid boots, in memory of Puss-in-Boots, her distinguished
ancestor, and put a pair of gloves on her fore-paws, to protect them
from the dust of the roads.

Thus attired, she took a satisfied glance at the mirror. Then, a
little nervously, with an anxious eye and a quivering pink nose, she
hastily invited Sugar and Fire to take the air with her. So they all
three walked out, while the others went on dressing. Let us follow
them for a moment, for we have already grown to like our brave little
Tyltyl and we shall want to hear anything that is likely to help or
delay his undertaking.

After passing through several splendid galleries, hung like balconies
in the sky, our three cronies stopped in the hall; and the Cat at once
addressed the meeting in a hushed voice:

"I have brought you here," she said, "in order to discuss the position
in which we are placed. Let us make the most of our last moment of
liberty...."

But she was interrupted by a furious uproar:

"Bow, wow, wow!"

"There now!" cried the Cat. "There's that idiot of a Dog! He has
scented us out! We can't get a minute's peace. Let us hide behind the
balustrade. He had better not hear what I have to say to you."

"It's too late," said Sugar, who was standing by the door.

And, sure enough, Tylo was coming up, jumping, barking, panting and
delighted.

The Cat, when she saw him, turned away in disgust:

"He has put on the livery of one of the footmen of Cinderella's
coach.... It is just the thing for him: he has the soul of a
flunkey!"