She ended these words with a "Fft! Fft!" and, stroking her whiskers,
took up her stand, with a defiant air, between Sugar and Fire. The
good Dog did not see her little game. He was wholly wrapped up in the
pleasure of being gorgeously arrayed; and he danced round and round.
It was really funny to see his velvet coat whirling like a
merry-go-round, with the skirts opening every now and then and showing
his little stumpy tail, which was all the more expressive as it had to
express itself very briefly. For I need hardly tell you that Tylo,
like every well-bred bull-dog, had had his tail and his ears cropped
as a puppy.

Poor fellow, he had long envied the tails of his brother dogs, which
allowed them to use a much larger and more varied vocabulary. But
physical deficiencies and the hardships of fortune strengthen our
innermost qualities. Tylo's soul, having no outward means of
expressing itself, had only gained through silence; and his look,
which was always filled with love, had become very eloquent.

To-day his big dark eyes glistened with delight; he had suddenly
changed into a man! He was all over magnificent clothes; and he was
about to perform a grand errand across the world in company with the
gods!

"There!" he said. "There! Aren't we fine!... Just look at this lace
and embroidery!... It's real gold and no mistake!"

He did not see that the others were laughing at him, for, to tell the
truth, he did look very comical; but, like all simple creatures, he
had no sense of humour. He was so proud of his natural garment of
yellow hair that he had put on no waistcoat, in order that no one
might have a doubt as to where he sprang from. For the same reason, he
had kept his collar, with his address on it. A big red velvet coat,
heavily braided with gold-lace, reached to his knees; and the large
pockets on either side would enable him, he thought, always to carry a
few provisions; for Tylo was very greedy. On his left ear, he wore a
little round cap with an osprey-feather in it and he kept it on his
big square head by means of an elastic which cut his fat, loose cheeks
in two. His other ear remained free. Cropped close to his head in the
shape of a little paper screw-bag, this ear was the watchful receiver
into which all the sounds of life fell, like pebbles disturbing its
rest.