He had also encased his hind-legs in a pair of patent-leather
riding-boots, with white tops; but his fore-paws he considered of such
use that nothing would have induced him to put them into gloves. Tylo
had too natural a character to change his little ways all in a day;
and, in spite of his new-blown honours, he allowed himself to do
undignified things. He was at the present moment lying on the steps of
the hall, scratching the ground and sniffing at the wall, when
suddenly he gave a start and began to whine and whimper! His lower lip
shook nervously as though he were going to cry.

"What's the matter with the idiot now?" asked the Cat, who was
watching him out of the corner of her eye.

But she at once understood. A very sweet song came from the distance;
and Tylo could not endure music. The song drew nearer, a girl's fresh
voice filled the shadows of the lofty arches and Water appeared. Tall,
slender and white as a pearl, she seemed to glide rather than to walk.
Her movements were so soft and graceful that they were suspected
rather than seen. A beautiful silvery dress waved and floated around
her; and her hair decked with corals flowed below her knees.

When Fire caught sight of her, like the rude and spiteful fellow that
he was, he sneered:

"She's not brought her umbrella!"

But Water, who was really quite witty and who knew that she was the
stronger of the two, chaffed him pleasantly and said, with a glance at
his glowing nose:

"I beg your pardon?... I thought you might be speaking of a great red
nose I saw the other day!..."

The others began to laugh and poke fun at Fire, whose face was always
like a red-hot coal. Fire angrily jumped to the ceiling, keeping his
revenge for later. Meanwhile, the Cat went up to Water, very
cautiously, and paid her ever so many compliments on her dress. I need
hardly tell you that she did not mean a word of it; but she wished to
be friendly with everybody, for she wanted their votes, to carry out
her plan; and she was anxious at not seeing Bread, because she did not
want to speak before the meeting was complete:

"What can he be doing?" she mewed, time after time.

"He was making an endless fuss about choosing his dress," said the
Dog. "At last, he decided in favour of a Turkish robe, with a scimitar
and a turban."