The words were not out of his mouth, when a shapeless and ridiculous
bulk, clad in all the colours of the rainbow, came and blocked the
narrow door of the hall. It was the enormous stomach of Bread, who
filled the whole opening. He kept on knocking himself, without knowing
why; for he was not very clever and, besides, he was not yet used to
moving about in human beings' houses. At last, it occurred to him
to stoop; and, by squeezing through sideways, he managed to make his
way into the hall.

It was certainly not a triumphal entry, but he was pleased with it all
the same:

"Here I am!" he said. "Here I am! I have put on Blue-beard's finest
dress.... What do you think of this?"

The Dog began to frisk around him: he thought Bread magnificent! That
yellow velvet costume, covered all over with silver crescents,
reminded Tylo of the delicious horse-shoe rolls which he loved; and
the huge, gaudy turban on Bread's head was really very like a fairy
bun!

"How nice he looks!" he cried. "How nice he looks!"

Bread was shyly followed by Milk. Her simple mind had made her prefer
her cream dress to all the finery which the Fairy suggested to her.
She was really a model of humility.

Bread was beginning to talk about the dresses of Tyltyl, Light and
Mytyl, when the Cat cut him short in a masterful voice:

"We shall see them in good time," she said. "Stop chattering, listen
to me, time presses: our future is at stake...."

They all looked at her with a bewildered air. They understood that it
was a solemn moment, but the human language was still full of mystery
to them. Sugar wriggled his long fingers as a sign of distress; Bread
patted his huge stomach; Water lay on the floor and seemed to suffer
from the most profound despair; and Milk only had eyes for Bread, who
had been her friend for ages and ages.

The Cat, becoming impatient, continued her speech:

"The Fairy has just said it, the end of this journey will, at the same
time, mark the end of our lives. It is our business, therefore, to
spin the journey out as long as possible and by every means in our
power...."

Bread, who was afraid of being eaten as soon as he was no longer a
man, hastened to express approval; but the Dog, who was standing a
little way off, pretending not to hear, began to growl deep down in
his soul. He well knew what the Cat was driving at; and, when Tylette
ended her speech with the words, "We must at all costs prolong the
journey and prevent Blue Bird from being found, even if it means
endangering the lives of the Children," the good Dog, obeying only the
promptings of his heart, leapt at the Cat to bite her. Sugar, Bread
and Fire flung themselves between them:

"Order! Order!" said Bread pompously. "I'm in the chair at this
meeting."