"Who made you chairman?" stormed Fire.

"Who asked you to interfere?" asked Water, whirling her wet hair over
Fire.

"Excuse me," said Sugar, shaking all over, in conciliatory tones.
"Excuse me.... This is a serious moment.... Let us talk things over in
a friendly way."

"I quite agree with Sugar and the Cat," said Bread, as though that
ended the matter.

"This is ridiculous!" said the Dog, barking and showing his teeth.
"There is Man and that's all!... We have to obey him and do as he
tells us!... I recognise no one but him!... Hurrah for Man!... Man for
ever!... In life or death, all for Man!... Man is everything!..."

But the Cat's shrill voice rose above all the others. She was full of
grudges against Man and she wanted to make use of the short spell of
humanity which she now enjoyed to avenge her whole race:

"All of us here present," she cried, "Animals, Things and Elements,
possess a soul which Man does not yet know. That is why we retain a
remnant of independence; but, if he finds the Blue Bird, he will know
all, he will see all and we shall be completely at his mercy....
Remember the time when we wandered at liberty upon the face of the
earth!..." But, suddenly her face changed, her voice sank to a whisper
and she hissed, "Look out! I hear the Fairy and Light coming. I need

But our friends had had no practice in trickery and, feeling
themselves in the wrong, took up such ridiculous and uncomfortable
attitudes that the Fairy, the moment she appeared upon the threshold,
exclaimed:

"What are you doing in that corner?... You look like a pack of
conspirators!"

Quite scared and thinking that the Fairy had already guessed their
wicked intentions, they fell upon their knees before her. Luckily for
them, the Fairy hardly gave a thought to what was passing through
their little minds. She had come to explain the first part of the
journey to the Children and to tell each of the others what to do.
Tyltyl and Mytyl stood hand in hand in front of her, looking a little
frightened and a little awkward in their fine clothes. They stared at
each other in childish admiration.

The little girl was wearing a yellow silk frock embroidered with pink
posies and covered with gold spangles. On her head was a lovely orange
velvet cap; and a starched muslin tucker covered her little arms.
Tyltyl was dressed in a red jacket and blue knickerbockers, both of
velvet; and of course he wore the wonderful little hat on his head.

The Fairy said to them:

"It is just possible that the Blue Bird is hiding at your
grandparents' in the Land of Memory; so you will go there first."

"But how shall we see them, if they are dead?" asked Tyltyl.

Then the good Fairy explained that they would not be really dead until
their grandchildren ceased to think of them: