"Men do not know this secret," she added. "But, thanks to the diamond,
you, Tyltyl, will see that the dead whom we remember live as happily
as though they were not dead."

"Are you coming with us?" asked the boy, turning to Light, who stood
in the doorway and lit up all the hall.

"No," said the Fairy. "Light must not look at the past. Her energies
must be devoted to the future!"

The two Children were starting on their way, when they discovered that
they were very hungry. The Fairy at once ordered Bread to give them
something to eat; and that big, fat fellow, delighted with the
importance of his duty, undid the top of his robe, drew his scimitar
and cut two slices out of his stomach. The Children screamed with
laughter. Tylo dropped his gloomy thoughts for a moment and begged
for a bit of bread; and everybody struck up the farewell chorus.
Sugar, who was very full of himself, also wanted to impress the
company and, breaking off two of his fingers, handed them to the
astonished Children.

As they were all moving towards the door, the Fairy Berylune stopped
them:

"Not to-day," she said. "The children must go alone. It would be
indiscreet to accompany them; they are going to spend the evening with
their late family. Come, be off! Good-bye, dear children, and mind
that you are back in good time: it is extremely important!"

The two Children took each other by the hand and, carrying the big
cage, passed out of the hall; and their companions, at a sign from the
Fairy, filed in front of her to return to the palace. Our friend Tylo
was the only one who did not answer to his name. The moment he heard
the Fairy say that the Children were to go alone, he had made up his
mind to go and look after them, whatever happened; and, while the
others were saying good-bye, he hid behind the door. But the poor
fellow had reckoned without the all-seeing eyes of the Fairy Berylune.

"Tylo!" she cried. "Tylo! Here!"

And the poor Dog, who had so long been used to obey, dared not resist
the command and came, with his tail between his legs, to take his
place among the others. He howled with despair when he saw his little
master and mistress swallowed up in the great gold staircase.

CHAPTER III

THE LAND OF MEMORY

The Fairy Berylune had told the Children that the Land of Memory was
not far off; but to reach it you had to go through a forest that was
so dense and so old that your eyes could not see the tops of the
trees. It was always shrouded in a heavy mist; and the Children would
certainly have lost their way, if the Fairy had not said to them
beforehand:

"It is straight ahead; and there is only one road."