The ground was carpeted with flowers which were all alike: they were
snow-white pansies and very pretty; but, as they never saw the sun,
they had no scent.

Those little flowers comforted the Children, who felt extremely
lonely. A great mysterious silence surrounded them; and they trembled
a little with a very pleasant sense of fear which they had never felt
before.

"Let's take Granny a bunch of flowers," said Mytyl.

"That's a good idea! She will be pleased!" cried Tyltyl.

And, as they walked along, the Children gathered a beautiful white
nosegay. The dear little things did not know that every pansy (which
means "a thought") that they picked brought them nearer to their
grandparents; and they soon saw before them a large oak with a
notice-board nailed to it.

"Here we are!" cried the boy in triumph, as, climbing up on a root, he
read:

"_The Land of Memory._"

They had arrived; but they turned to every side without seeing a
thing:

"I can see nothing at all!" whimpered Mytyl. "I'm cold!... I'm
tired!... I don't want to travel any more!"

Tyltyl, who was wholly wrapped up in his errand, lost his temper:

"Come, don't keep on crying just like Water!... You ought to be
ashamed of yourself!" he said. "There! Look! Look! The fog is
lifting!"

and, instead, there appeared a pretty little peasant's cottage,
covered with creepers and standing in a little garden filled with
flowers and with trees all over fruit.

The Children at once knew the dear cow in the orchard, the watch-dog
at the door, the blackbird in his wicker cage; and everything was
steeped in a pale light and a warm and balmy air.

Tyltyl and Mytyl stood amazed. So that was the Land of Memory! What
lovely weather it was! And how nice it felt to be there! They at once
made up their minds to come back often, now that they knew the way.
But how great was their happiness when the last veil disappeared and
they saw, at a few steps from them, Grandad and Granny sitting on a
bench, sound asleep. They clapped their hands and called out
gleefully:

"It's Grandad! It's Granny!... There they are! There they are!"

But they were a little scared by this great piece of magic and dared
not move from behind the tree; and they stood looking at the dear old
couple, who woke up gently and slowly under their eyes. Then they
heard Granny Tyl's trembling voice say:

"I have a notion that our grandchildren who are still alive are coming
to see us to-day."

And Gaffer Tyl answered:

"They are certainly thinking of us, for I feel queer and I have pins
and needles in my legs."

"I think they must be quite near," said Granny, "for I see tears of
joy dancing before my eyes and...."