Granny had not time to finish her sentence. The Children were in her
arms!... What joy! What wild kisses and huggings! What a wonderful
surprise! The happiness was too great for words. They laughed and
tried to speak and kept on looking at one another with delighted eyes:
it was so glorious and so unexpected to meet again like this. When the
first excitement was over, they all began to talk at once:

"How tall and strong you've grown, Tyltyl!" said Granny.

And Grandad cried:

"And Mytyl! Just look at her! What pretty hair, what pretty eyes!"

At last, they quieted down a little; and, with Mytyl nestling against
Grandad's chest and Tyltyl comfortably perched on Granny's knees, they
began to talk of family affairs:

"How are Daddy and Mummy Tyl?" asked Granny.

"Quite well, Granny," said Tyltyl. "They were asleep when we went
out."

Granny gave them fresh kisses and said:

"My word, how pretty they are and how nice and clean!... Why don't you
come to see us oftener? It is months and months now that you have
forgotten us and that we have seen nobody...."

"We couldn't, Granny," said Tyltyl, "and to-day it's only because of
the Fairy...."

"We are always here," said Granny Tyl, "waiting for a visit from those
who are alive. The last time you were here was on All-hallows...."

"All-hallows? We didn't go out that day, for we both had colds!"

"But you thought of us! And, every time you think of us, we wake up
and see you again."

Tyltyl remembered that the Fairy had told him this. He had not thought
it possible then; but now, with his head on the heart of the dear
Granny whom he had missed so much, he began to understand things and
he felt that his grandparents had not left him altogether. He asked:

"So you are not really dead?..."

The old couple burst out laughing. When they exchanged their life on
earth for another and a much nicer and more beautiful life, they had
forgotten the word "dead."

"What does that word 'dead' mean?" asked Gaffer Tyl.

"Why, it means that one's no longer alive!" said Tyltyl.

Grandad and Granny only shrugged their shoulders:

"How stupid the Living are, when they speak of the Others!" was all
they said.

And they went over their memories again, rejoicing in being able to
chat.

All old people love discussing old times. The future is finished, as
far as they are concerned; and so they delight in the present and the
past. But we are growing impatient, like Tyltyl; and, instead of
listening to them, we will follow our little friend's movements.

He had jumped off Granny's knees and was poking about in every corner,
delighted at finding all sorts of things which he knew and remembered: