"Nothing is changed, everything is in its old place!" he cried. And,
as he had not been to the old people's home for so long, everything
struck him as much nicer; and he added, in the voice of one who knows,
"Only everything is prettier!... Hullo, there's the clock with the big
hand which I broke the point off and the hole which I made in the
door, the day I found Grandad's gimlet...."

"Yes, you've done some damage in your time!" said Grandad. "And
there's the plum-tree which you were so fond of climbing, when I
wasn't looking...."

Meantime, Tyltyl was not forgetting his errand:

"You haven't the Blue Bird here by chance, I suppose?"

At the same moment, Mytyl, lifting her head, saw a cage:

"Hullo, there's the old blackbird!... Does he still sing?"

As she spoke, the blackbird woke up and began to sing at the top of
his voice.

"You see," said Granny, "as soon as one thinks of him...."

Tyltyl was simply amazed at what he saw:

"But he's blue!" he shouted. "Why, that's the bird, the Blue Bird!...
He's blue, blue, blue as a blue glass marble!... Will you give him to
me?"

The grandparents gladly consented; and, full of triumph, Tyltyl went
and fetched the cage which he had left by the tree. He took hold of
the precious bird with the greatest of care; and it began to hop about
in its new home.

"How pleased the Fairy will be!" said the boy, rejoicing at his
conquest. "And Light too!"

"Come along," said the grandparents. "Come and look at the cow and the
bees."

As the old couple were beginning to toddle across the garden, the
children suddenly asked if their little dead brothers and sisters were
there too. At the same moment, seven little children, who, up to then,
had been sleeping in the house, came tearing like mad into the garden.
Tyltyl and Mytyl ran up to them. They all hustled and hugged one
another and danced and whirled about and uttered screams of joy.

"Here they are, here they are!" said Granny. "As soon as you speak of
them, they are there, the imps!"

Tyltyl caught a little one by the hair:

"Hullo, Pierrot! So we're going to fight again, as in the old days!...
And Robert!... I say, Jean, what's become of your top?... Madeleine
and Pierrette and Pauline!... And here's Riquette!..."

Mytyl laughed:

"Riquette's still crawling on all fours!"

Tyltyl noticed a little dog yapping around them:

"There's Kiki, whose tail I cut off with Pauline's scissors.... He
hasn't changed either...."

"No," said Gaffer Tyl, in a voice of great importance, "nothing
changes here!"

But, suddenly, amid the general rejoicings, the old people stopped
spell-bound: they had heard the small voice of the clock indoors
strike eight!

"How's this?" they asked. "It never strikes nowadays...."

"That's because we no longer think of the time," said Granny. "Was any
one thinking of the time?"