"Yes, I was," said Tyltyl. "So it's eight o'clock?... Then I'm off,
for I promised Light to be back before nine...."

He was going for the cage, but the others were too happy to let him
run away so soon: it would be horrid to say good-bye like that! Granny
had a good idea: she knew what a little glutton Tyltyl was. It was
just supper-time and, as luck would have it, there was some capital
cabbage-soup and a beautiful plum-tart.

"Well," said our hero, "as I've got the Blue Bird!... And cabbage-soup
is a thing you don't have every day!..."

They all hurried and carried the table outside and laid it with a nice
white table-cloth and put a plate for each; and, lastly, Granny
brought out the steaming soup-tureen in state. The lamp was lit and
the grandparents and grandchildren sat down to supper, jostling and
elbowing one another and laughing and shouting with pleasure. Then,
for a time, nothing was heard but the sound of the wooden spoons
noisily clattering against the soup-plates.

"How good it is! Oh, how good it is!" shouted Tyltyl, who was eating
greedily. "I want some more! More! More! More!"

"Come, come, a little more quiet," said Grandad. "You're just as
ill-behaved as ever; and you'll break your plate...."

Tyltyl took no notice of the remark, stood up on his stool, caught
hold of the tureen and dragged it towards him and upset it; and the
hot soup trickled all over the table and down upon everybody's lap.
The children yelled and screamed with pain. Granny was quite scared;
and Grandad was furious. He dealt our friend Tyltyl a tremendous box
on the ear.

Tyltyl was staggered for a moment; and then he put his hand to his
cheek with a look of rapture and exclaimed:

"Grandad, how good, how jolly! It was just like the slaps you used to
give me when you were alive!... I must give you a kiss for it!..."

Everybody laughed.

"There's more where that came from, if you like them!" said Grandad,
grumpily.

But he was touched, all the same, and turned to wipe a tear from his
eyes.

"Goodness!" cried Tyltyl, starting up. "There's half-past eight
striking!... Mytyl, we've only just got time!..."

Granny in vain implored them to stay a few minutes longer.

"No, we can't possibly," said Tyltyl firmly; "I promised Light!"

And he hurried to take up the precious cage.

"Good-bye, Grandad.... Good-bye, Granny.... Good-bye, brothers and
sisters, Pierrot, Robert, Pauline, Madeleine, Riquette and you, too,
Kiki.... We can't stay.... Don't cry, Granny; we will come back
often!"

Poor old Grandad was very much upset and complained lustily:

"Gracious me, how tiresome the Living are, with all their fuss and
excitement!"

Tyltyl tried to console him and again promised to come back very
often.

"Come back every day!" said Granny. "It is our only pleasure; and it's
such a treat for us when your thoughts pay us a visit!"