"Good-bye! Good-bye!" cried the brothers and sisters in chorus. "Come
back very soon! Bring us some barley sugar!"

There were more kisses; all waved their handkerchiefs; all shouted a
last good-bye. But the figures began to fade away; the little voices
could no longer be heard; the two Children were once more wrapped in
mist; and the old forest covered them with its great dark mantle.

"I'm so frightened!" whimpered Mytyl. "Give me your hand, little
brother! I'm so frightened!"

Tyltyl was shaking too, but it was his duty to try and comfort and
console his sister:

"Hush!" he said. "Remember that we are bringing back the Blue Bird!"

As he spoke, a thin ray of light pierced the gloom; and the little boy
hurried towards it. He was holding his cage tight in his arms; and the
first thing he did was to look at his bird.... Alas and alack, what a
disappointment awaited him! The beautiful Blue Bird of the Land of
Memory had turned quite black! Stare at it as hard as Tyltyl might,
the bird was black! Oh, how well he knew the old blackbird that used
to sing in its wicker prison, in the old days, at the door of the
house! What had happened? How painful it was! And how cruel life
seemed to him just then!

He had started on his journey with such zest and delight that he had
not thought for a moment of the difficulties and dangers. Full of
confidence, pluck and kindness, he had marched off, certain of
finding the beautiful Blue Bird which would bring happiness to the
Fairy's little girl. And now all his hopes were shattered! For the
first time, our poor friend understood the trials, the vexations and
the obstacles that awaited him! Alas, was he attempting an impossible
thing? Was the Fairy making fun of him? Would he ever find the Blue
Bird? All his courage seemed to be leaving him....

To add to his misfortunes, he could not find the straight road by
which he had come. There was not a single white pansy on the ground;
and he began to cry.

Luckily, our little friends were not to remain in trouble long. The
Fairy had promised that Light would watch over them. The first trial
was over; and, just as outside the old people's house a little while
ago, the mist now suddenly lifted. But, instead of disclosing a
peaceful picture, a gentle, homely scene, it revealed a marvellous
temple, with a blinding glare streaming from it.