On the threshold stood Light, fair and beautiful in her
diamond-coloured dress. She smiled when Tyltyl told her of his first
failure. She knew what the little ones were seeking; she knew
everything. For Light surrounds all mortals with her love, though none
of them is fond enough of her ever to receive her thoroughly and thus
to learn all the secrets of Truth. Now, for the first time, thanks to
the diamond which the Fairy had given to the boy, she was going to try
and conquer a human soul:

"Do not be sad," she said to the Children. "Are you not pleased to
have seen your grandparents? Is that not enough happiness for one day?
Are you not glad to have restored the old blackbird to life? Listen to
him singing!"

For the old blackbird was singing with might and main; and his little
yellow eyes sparkled with pleasure as he hopped about his big cage.

"As you look for the Blue Bird, dear Children, accustom yourselves to
love the grey birds which you find on your way."

She nodded her fair head gravely; and it was quite clear that she knew
where the Blue Bird was. But life is often full of beautiful
mysteries, which we must respect, lest we should destroy them; and, if
Light had told the Children where the Blue Bird was, well, they would
never have found him! I will tell you why at the end of this story.

And now let us leave our little friends to sleep on beautiful white
clouds under Light's watchful care.

CHAPTER IV

THE PALACE OF NIGHT

Some time after, the Children and their friends met at the first dawn
to go to the Palace of Night, where they hoped to find the Blue Bird.
Several of the party failed to answer to their names when the roll was
called. Milk, for whom any sort of excitement was bad, was keeping her
room. Water sent an excuse: she was accustomed always to travel in a
bed of moss, was already half-dead with fatigue and was afraid of
falling ill. As for Light, she had been on bad terms with Night since
the world began; and Fire, as a relation, shared her dislike. Light
kissed the Children and told Tylo the way, for it was his business to
lead the expedition; and the little band set out upon its road.

You can imagine dear Tylo trotting ahead, on his hind legs, like a
little man, with his nose in the air, his tongue dangling down his
chin, his front paws folded across his chest. He fidgets, sniffs
about, runs up and down, covering twice the ground without minding how
tired it makes him. He is so full of his own importance that he
disdains the temptations on his path: he neglects the rubbish heaps,
pays no attention to anything he sees and cuts all his old friends.