Poor Tylo! He was so delighted to become a man; and yet he was no
happier than before! Of course, life was the same to him, because his
nature had remained unchanged. What was the use of his being a man, if
he continued to feel and think like a dog? In fact, his troubles were
increased a hundred-fold by the sense of responsibility that now
weighed upon him.

"Ah!" he said, with a sigh, for he was joining blindly in his little
gods' search, without for a moment reflecting that the end of the
journey would mean the end of his life. "Ah," he said, "if I got hold
of that rascal of a Blue Bird, trust me, I wouldn't touch him even
with the tip of my tongue, not if he were as plump and sweet as a
quail!"

Bread followed solemnly, carrying the cage; the two Children came
next; and Sugar brought up the rear.

But where was the Cat? To discover the reason of her absence, we must
go a little way back and read her thoughts. At the time when Tylette
called a meeting of the Animals and Things in the Fairy's hall, she
was contemplating a great plot which would aim at prolonging the
journey; but she had reckoned without the stupidity of her hearers:

were guilty of a crime. It is better to rely upon one's self alone. In
my cat-life, all our training is founded on suspicion; I can see that
it is just the same in the life of men. Those who confide in others
are only betrayed; it is better to keep silent and to be treacherous
one's self."

As you see, my dear little readers, the Cat was in the same position
as the Dog: she had not changed her soul and was simply continuing her
former existence; but, of course, she was very wicked, whereas our
dear Tylo was, if anything, too good. Tylette, therefore, resolved to
act on her own account and went, before daybreak, to call on Night,
who was an old friend of hers.

The road to the Palace of Night was rather long and rather dangerous.
It had precipices on either side of it; you had to climb up and climb
down and then climb up again among high rocks that always seemed
waiting to crush the passers-by. At last, you came to the edge of a
dark circle; and there you had to go down thousands of steps to reach
the black-marble underground palace in which Night lived.

The Cat, who had often been there before, raced along the road, light
as a feather. Her cloak, borne on the wind, streamed like a banner
behind her; the plume in her hat fluttered gracefully; and her little
grey kid boots hardly touched the ground. She soon reached her
destination and, in a few bounds, came to the great hall where Night
was.