It was really a wonderful sight. Night, stately and grand as a Queen,
reclined upon her throne; she slept; and not a glimmer, not a star
twinkled around her. But we know that the night has no secrets for
cats and that their eyes have the power of piercing the darkness. So
Tylette saw Night as though it were broad daylight.

Before waking her, she cast a loving glance at that motherly and
familiar face. It was white and silvery as the moon; and its unbending
features inspired both fear and admiration. Night's figure, which was
half visible through her long black veils, was as beautiful as that of
a Greek statue. She had long arms and a pair of enormous wings, now
furled in sleep, came from her shoulders to her feet and gave her a
look of majesty beyond compare. Still, in spite of her affection for
her best of friends, Tylette did not waste too much time in gazing at
her: it was a critical moment; and time was short. Tired and jaded and
overcome with anguish, she sank upon the steps of the throne and
mewed, plaintively:

"It is I, Mother Night!... I am worn out!"

Night is of an anxious nature and easily alarmed. Her beauty, built up
of peace and repose, possesses the secret of Silence, which life is
constantly disturbing: a star shooting through the sky, a leaf falling
to the ground, the hoot of an owl, a mere nothing is enough to tear
the black velvet pall which she spreads over the earth each evening.
The Cat, therefore, had not finished speaking, when Night sat up, all
quivering. Her immense wings beat around her; and she questioned
Tylette in a trembling voice. As soon as she had learned the danger
that threatened her, she began to lament her fate. What! A man's son
coming to her palace! And, perhaps, with the help of the magic
diamond, discovering her secrets! What should she do? What would
become of her? How could she defend herself? And, forgetting that she
was sinning against Silence, her own particular god, Night began to
utter piercing screams. It was true that falling into such a commotion
was hardly likely to help her find a cure for her troubles. Luckily
for her, Tylette, who was accustomed to the annoyances and worries of
human life, was better armed. She had worked out her plan when going
ahead of the children; and she was hoping to persuade Night to adopt
it. She explained this plan to her in a few words:

"I see only one thing for it, Mother Night: as they are children, we
must give them such a fright that they will not dare to insist on
opening the great door at the back of the hall, behind which the Birds
of the Moon live and generally the Blue Bird too. The secrets of the
other caverns will be sure to scare them. The hope of our safety lies
in the terror which you will make them feel."