There was clearly no other course to take. But Night had not time to
reply, for she heard a sound. Then her beautiful features contracted;
her wings spread out angrily; and everything in her attitude told
Tylette that Night approved of her plan.

"Here they are!" cried the Cat.

The little band came marching down the steps of Night's gloomy
staircase. Tylo pranced bravely in front, whereas Tyltyl looked around
him with an anxious glance. He certainly found nothing to comfort him.
It was all very magnificent, but very terrifying. Picture a huge and
wonderful black marble hall, of a stern and tomb-like splendour. There
is no ceiling visible; and the ebony pillars that surround the
amphitheatre shoot up to the sky. It is only when you lift your eyes
up there that you catch the faint light falling from the stars.
Everywhere, the thickest darkness reigns. Two restless flames--no
more--flicker on either side of Night's throne, before a monumental
door of brass. Bronze doors show through the pillars to the right and
left.

The Cat rushed up to the Children:

"This way, little master, this way!... I have told Night; and she is
delighted to see you."

Tylette's soft voice and smile made Tyltyl feel himself again; and he
walked up to the throne with a bold and confident step, saying:

"Good-day, Mrs. Night!"

Night was offended by the word, "Good-day," which reminded her of her
eternal enemy Light, and answered drily:

"Good-day?... I am not used to that!... You might say, Good-night, or,
at least, Good-evening!"

Our hero was not prepared to quarrel. He felt very small in the
presence of that stately lady. He quickly begged her pardon, as nicely
as he could; and very gently asked her leave to look for the Blue Bird
in her palace.

"I have never seen him, he is not here!" exclaimed Night, flapping her
great wings to frighten the boy.

But, when he insisted and gave no sign of fear, she herself began to
dread the diamond, which, by lighting up her darkness, would
completely destroy her power; and she thought it better to pretend to
yield to an impulse of generosity and at once to point to the big key
that lay on the steps of the throne.

Without a moment's hesitation, Tyltyl seized hold of it and ran to the
first door of the hall.

Everybody shook with fright. Bread's teeth chattered in his head;
Sugar, who was standing some way off, moaned with mortal anguish;
Mytyl howled:

"Where is Sugar?... I want to go home!"

Meanwhile, Tyltyl, pale and resolute, was trying to open the door,
while Night's grave voice, rising above the din, proclaimed the first
danger.

"It's the Ghosts!"

"Oh, dear!" thought Tyltyl. "I have never seen a ghost: it must be
awful!"

The faithful Tylo, by his side, was panting with all his might, for
dogs hate anything uncanny.