Poor Sugar! He did not know where to hide himself. He had become very
much attached to life since the journey began, for he had fallen over
head and ears in love with Water! And yet this love caused him the
greatest worry. Miss Water was a tremendous flirt, expected a lot
of attention and was not particular with whom she mixed; but mixing
too much with Water was an expensive luxury, as poor Sugar found to
his cost; for, at every kiss he gave her, he left a bit of himself
behind, until he began to tremble for his life.

When he suddenly found himself attacked by Cold-in-the-Head, he would
have had to fly from the palace, but for the timely aid of our dear
Tylo, who ran after the little minx and drove her back to her cavern,
amidst the laughter of Tyltyl and Mytyl, who thought gleefully that,
so far, the trial had not been very terrible.

The boy, therefore, ran to the next door with still greater courage.

"Take care!" cried Night, in a dreadful voice. "It's the Wars! They
are more powerful than ever! I daren't think what would happen, if one
of them broke loose! Stand ready, all of you, to push back the door!"

Night had not finished uttering her warnings, when the plucky little
fellow repented his rashness. He tried in vain to shut the door which
he had opened: an invincible force was pushing it from the other side,
streams of blood flowed through the cracks; flames shot forth; shouts,
oaths and groans mingled with the roar of cannon and the rattle of
musketry. Everybody in the Palace of Night was running about in wild
confusion. Bread and Sugar tried to take to flight, but could not find
the way out; and they now came back to Tyltyl and put their shoulders
to the door with despairing force.

The Cat pretended to be anxious, while secretly rejoicing:

"This may be the end of it," she said, curling her whiskers. "They
won't dare to go on after this."

Dear Tylo made superhuman efforts to help his little master, while
Mytyl stood crying in a corner.

At last, our hero gave a shout of triumph:

"Hurrah! They're giving way! Victory! Victory! The door is shut!"

At the same time, he dropped on the steps, utterly exhausted, dabbing
his forehead with his poor little hands which shook with terror.

"Well?" asked Night, harshly. "Have you had enough? Did you see them?"

"Yes, yes!" replied the little fellow, sobbing. "They are hideous and
awful.... I don't think they have the Blue Bird...."

"You may be sure they haven't," answered Night, angrily. "If they had,
they would eat him at once.... You see there is nothing to be
done...."

Tyltyl drew himself up proudly:

"I must see everything," he declared. "Light said so...."

"It's an easy thing to say," retorted Night, "when one's afraid and
stays at home!"

"Let us go to the next door," said Tyltyl, resolutely. "What's in
here?"