"This is where I keep the Shades and the Terrors!"

Tyltyl reflected for a minute:

"As far as Shades go," he thought, "Mrs. Night is poking fun at me.
It's more than an hour since I've seen anything but shade in this
house of hers; and I shall be very glad to see daylight again. As for
the Terrors, if they are anything like the Ghosts, we shall have
another good joke."

Our friend went to the door and opened it, before his companions had
time to protest. For that matter, they were all sitting on the floor,
exhausted with the last fright; and they looked at one another in
astonishment, glad to find themselves alive after such a scare.
Meanwhile, Tyltyl threw back the door and nothing came out:

"There's no one there!" he said.

"Yes, there is! Yes, there is! Look out!" said Night, who was still
shamming fright.

She was simply furious. She had hoped to make a great impression with
her Terrors; and, lo and behold, the wretches, who had so long been
snubbed by Man, were afraid of him! She encouraged them with kind
words and succeeded in coaxing out a few tall figures covered with
grey veils. They began to run all around the hall until, hearing the
Children laugh, they were seized with fear and rushed indoors again.
The attempt had failed, as far as Night was concerned, and the dread
hour was about to strike. Already, Tyltyl was moving towards the big
door at the end of the hall. A few last words took place between them:

"Do not open that one!" said Night, in awe-struck tones.

"Why not?"

"Because it's not allowed!"

"Then it's here that the Blue Bird is hidden!"

"Go no farther, do not tempt fate, do not open that door!"

"But why?" again asked Tyltyl, obstinately.

Thereupon, Night, irritated by his persistency, flew into a rage,
hurled the most terrible threats at him, and ended by saying:

"Not one of those who have opened it, were it but by a hair's breadth,
has ever returned alive to the light of day! It means certain death;
and all the horrors, all the terrors, all the fears of which men speak
on earth are as nothing compared with those which await you if you
insist on touching that door!"

"Don't do it, master dear!" said Bread, with chattering teeth. "Don't
do it! Take pity on us! I implore you on my knees!"

"You are sacrificing the lives of all of us," mewed the Cat.

"I won't! I sha'n't!" sobbed Mytyl.

"Pity! Pity!" whined Sugar, wringing his fingers.