All of them were weeping and crying, all of them crowded round Tyltyl.
Dear Tylo alone, who respected his little master's wishes, dared not
speak a word, though he fully believed that his last hour had come.
Two big tears rolled down his cheeks; and he licked Tyltyl's hands in
despair. It was really a most touching scene; and for a moment, our
hero hesitated. His heart beat wildly, his throat was parched with
anguish, he tried to speak and could not get out a sound: besides, he
did not wish to show weakness in the presence of his hapless
companions!

"If I have not the strength to fulfil my task," he said to himself,
"who will fulfil it? If my friends behold my distress, it is all up
with me: they will not let me go through with my mission and I shall
never find the Blue Bird!"

At this thought, the boy's heart leaped within his breast and all his
generous nature rose in rebellion. It would never do to be, perhaps,
within arm's length of happiness and not to try for it, at the risk of
dying in the attempt, to try for it and hand it over at last to all
mankind!

That settled it! Tyltyl resolved to sacrifice himself. Like a true
hero, he brandished the heavy golden key and cried:

"I must open the door!"

He ran up to the great door, with Tylo panting by his side. The poor
Dog was half-dead with fright, but his pride and his devotion to
Tyltyl obliged him to smother his fears:

"I shall stay," he said to his master, "I'm not afraid! I shall stay
with my little god!"

In the meantime, all the others had fled. Bread was crumbling to bits
behind a pillar; Sugar was melting in a corner with Mytyl in his arms;
Night and the Cat, both shaking with fury, kept to the far end of the
hall.

Then Tyltyl gave Tylo a last kiss, pressed him to his heart and, with
never a tremble, put the key in the lock. Yells of terror came from
all the corners of the hall, where the runaways had taken shelter,
while the two leaves of the great door opened by magic in front of our
little friend, who was struck dumb with admiration and delight. What
an exquisite surprise! A wonderful garden lay before him, a
dream-garden filled with flowers that shone like stars, waterfalls
that came rushing from the sky and trees which the moon had clothed in
silver. And then there was something whirling like a blue cloud among
the clusters of roses. Tyltyl rubbed his eyes; he could not believe
his senses. He waited, looked again and then dashed into the garden,
shouting like mad:

"Come quickly!... Come quickly!... They are here!... We have them at
last!... Millions of blue birds!... Thousands of millions!... Come,

Reassured at last, his friends came running up and all darted in among
the birds, seeing who could catch the most: