Tyltyl did not understand the deep meaning of her words; but, for all
that, he was very glad to hear them. And, besides, Light had promised
him that to-day he would have nothing to fear in their new expedition.
On the contrary, he would meet millions and millions of little
children who would show him the most wonderful toys of which no one on
earth had the least idea. She also told him that he and his little
sister would travel alone with her this time and that all the others
would take a rest while they were gone.

That is why, at the moment when our chapter opens, they had all met in
the underground vaults of the temple. Light thought it as well to lock
up the Elements and Things. She knew that, if they were left to do as
they pleased, they might escape and get into mischief. It was not so
very cruel of her, because the vaults of her temple are even lighter
and lovelier than the upper floors of human houses; but you cannot get
out without her leave. She alone has the power of widening, with a
stroke of her wand, a little cleft in an emerald wall at the end of
the passage, through which you go down a few crystal steps till you
come to a sort of cave, all green and transparent like a forest when
the sunlight sweeps through its branches.

Usually, this great hall was quite empty; but now it had sofas in it
and a gold table laid with fruits and cakes and creams and delicious
wines, which Light's servants had just finished setting out. Light's
servants were very odd! They always made the Children laugh: with
their long white satin dresses and their little black caps with a
flame at the top, they looked like lighted candles. Their mistress
sent them away and then told the Animals and Things to be very good
and asked them if they would like some books and games to play with;
they answered, with a laugh, that nothing amused them more than
eating and sleeping and that they were very glad to stay where they
were.

Tylo, of course, did not share this view. His heart spoke louder than
his greed or his laziness; and his great dark eyes turned in entreaty
on Tyltyl, who would have been only too pleased to take his faithful
companion with him, if Light had not absolutely forbidden it:

"I can't help it," said the boy, giving him a kiss. "It seems that
dogs are not admitted where we are going."