"We are in the Kingdom of the Future," said Light, "in the midst of
the children who are not yet born. As the diamond allows us to see
clearly in this region which is hidden from men, we shall perhaps find
the Blue Bird here.... Look! Look at the children running up!"

From every side came bands of little children dressed from head to
foot in blue; they had beautiful dark or golden hair and they were all
exquisitely pretty. They shouted gleefully:

"Live Children!... Come and look at the little Live Children!"

"Why do they call us the little Live Children?" asked Tyltyl, of
Light.

"It is because they themselves are not alive yet. They are awaiting
the hour of their birth, for it is from here that all the children
come who are born upon our earth. When the fathers and mothers want
children, the great doors which you see over there, at the back, are
opened; and the little ones go down...."

"What a lot there are! What a lot there are!" cried Tyltyl.

"There are many more," said Light. "No one could count them. But go a
little further: you will see other things."

Tyltyl did as he was told and elbowed his way through; but it was
difficult for him to move, because a crowd of Blue Children pressed
all around them. At last, by mounting on a step, our little friend was
able to look over the throng of inquisitive heads and see what was
happening in every part of the hall. It was most extraordinary! Tyltyl
had never dreamed of anything like it! He danced with joy; and Mytyl,
who was hanging on to him and standing on tip-toe so that she might
see too, clapped her little hands and gave loud cries of wonder.

All around were millions of Children in blue, some playing, others
walking about, others talking or thinking. Many were asleep; many also
were at work; and their instruments, their tools, the machines which
they were building, the plants, the flowers and the fruits which they
were growing or gathering were of the same bright and heavenly blue as
the general appearance of the palace. Among the Children moved tall
persons also dressed in blue: they were very beautiful and looked just
like angels. They came up to Light and smiled and gently pushed aside
the Blue Children, who went back quietly to what they were doing,
though still watching our friends with astonished eyes.

One of them, however, remained standing close to Tyltyl. He was quite
small. From under his long sky-blue silk dress peeped two little pink
and dimpled bare feet. His eyes stared in curiosity at the little Live
Boy; and he went up to him as though in spite of himself.

"May I talk to him?" asked Tyltyl, who felt half-glad and
half-frightened.

"Certainly," said Light. "You must make friends.... I will leave you
alone; you will be more at ease by yourselves...."