The two Children talked a good deal more; but it would take too long
to tell you all they said, because what they said was sometimes only
interesting to themselves. After a while, Light, who was watching them
from a distance, hurried up to them a little anxiously: Tyltyl was
crying! Big tears came rolling down his cheeks and falling on his
smart coat. She understood that he was talking of his grandmother and
that he could not keep back his tears at the thought of the love which
he had lost. He was turning away his head, to hide his feelings;
but the inquisitive Child kept asking him questions:

"Do the grannies die?... What does that mean, dying?"

"They go away one evening and do not come back."

"Has yours gone?"

"Yes," said Tyltyl. "She was very kind to me."

And, at these words, the poor little fellow began to cry again.

The Blue Child had never seen any one cry. He lived in a world where
grief did not exist. His surprise was great; and he exclaimed:

"What's the matter with your eyes?... Are they making pearls?"

To him those tears were wonderful things.

"No, it's not pearls," said Tyltyl, sheepishly.

"What is it then?"

But our poor friend would not admit what he looked upon as a weakness.
He rubbed his eyes awkwardly and put everything down to the dazzling
blue of the palace.

The puzzled Child insisted:

"What's that falling down?"

"Nothing; it's a little water," said Tyltyl, impatiently, hoping to
cut short the explanation.

But that was out of the question. The Child was very obstinate,
touched Tyltyl's cheeks with his finger and asked, in a tone of
curiosity:

"Does it come from the eyes?..."

"Yes, sometimes, when one cries."

"What does that mean, crying?" asked the Child.

"I have not been crying," said Tyltyl proudly. "It's the fault of that
blue!... But, if I had cried, it would be the same thing...."

"Do you often cry on earth?..."

"Not little boys, but little girls do.... Don't you cry here?"

"No, I don't know how...."

"Well, you will learn...."

At that moment, a great breath of wind made him turn his head and he
saw, at a few steps away from him, a large piece of machinery which he
had not noticed at first, as he was taken up with his interest in the
little Child. It was a grand and magnificent thing, but I cannot tell
you its name, because the inventions of the Kingdom of the Future will
not be christened by Man until they reach the earth. I can only say
that Tyltyl, when he looked at it, thought that the enormous azure
wings that whizzed so swiftly before his eyes were like the windmills
in his part of the world and that, if he ever found the Blue Bird,
its wings would certainly be no more delicate, dainty or dazzling.
Full of admiration, he asked his new acquaintance what they were.