Light, who was listening with a smile, saw the look of astonishment on
Tyltyl's face and bent over him:

"It is the song of the mothers coming out to meet them," she said.

At that moment, Time, who had shut the doors, saw our friends and
rushed at them angrily, shaking his scythe at them.

"Hurry!" said Light. "Hurry! Take the Blue Bird, Tyltyl, and go in
front of me with Mytyl."

She put into the boy's arms a bird which she held hidden under her
cloak and, all radiant, spreading her dazzling veil with her two
hands, she ran on, protecting her charges from the onslaught of Time.

In this way, they passed through several turquoise and sapphire
galleries. It was magnificently beautiful, but they were in the
Kingdom of the Future, where Time was the great master, and they must
escape from his anger which they had braved.

Mytyl was terribly frightened and Tyltyl kept nervously turning round
to Light.

"Don't be afraid," she said. "I am the only person whom Time has
respected since the world began. Only mind that you take care of the
Blue Bird. He's gorgeous! He is quite, quite blue!"

This thought enraptured the boy. He felt the precious treasure
fluttering in his arms; his hands dared not press the pretty
creature's soft, warm wings; and his heart beat against its heart.
This time, he held the Blue Bird! Nothing could touch it, because it
was given to him by Light herself. What a triumph when he returned
home!...

He was so bewildered by his happiness that he hardly knew where he was
going; his joy rang a victorious peal in his head that made him feel
giddy; he was mad with pride; and this, worse luck, made him lose his
coolness and his presence of mind! They were just about to cross the
threshold of the palace, when a gust of wind swept through the
entrance-hall, lifting up Light's veil and at last revealing the two
Children to the eyes of Time, who was still pursuing them. With a roar
of rage, he darted his scythe at Tyltyl, who cried out. Light warded
off the blow; and the door of the palace closed behind them with a
thud. They were saved!... But alas, Tyltyl, taken by surprise, had
opened his arms and now, through his tears, saw the Bird of the Future
soaring above their heads, mingling with the azure sky its dream-wings
so blue, so light and so transparent that soon the boy could make out
nothing more....

CHAPTER VI

IN THE TEMPLE OF LIGHT