After these arches, they came to the Lights Unknown to Man; and
Tyltyl, in spite of the sleep that pressed upon his eyelids, could not
help admiring the hall with its violet columns and the gallery with
its red rays. And the violet of the columns was such a dark violet and
the red of the rays such a pale red that it was hardly possible to see
either of them.

At last, they arrived at the room of smooth, unflecked Black Light,
which men call Darkness because their eyes are not yet able to make it
out. And here the Children fell asleep without delay on two soft beds
of clouds.

CHAPTER VII

THE GRAVEYARD

When the Children were not going on an expedition, they played about
in the Realms of Light; and this was a great treat for them, for the
gardens and the country around the temple were as wonderful as the
halls and galleries of silver and gold.

The leaves of some of the plants were so broad and strong that they
were able to lie down on them; and, when a breath of wind stirred the
leaves, the Children swung as in a hammock. It was always summer there
and yellow hours; and, according to their hues, the flowers, the
fruits, the birds, the butterflies and the scents changed, causing
Tyltyl and Mytyl a constant surprise. They had all the toys that they
could wish for. When they were tired of playing, they stretched
themselves out on the backs of the lizards, which were as long and
wide as little boats, and quickly, quickly raced round the
garden-paths, over the sand which was as white and as good to eat as
sugar. When they were thirsty, Water shook her tresses into the cup of
the enormous flowers; and the Children drank straight out of the
lilies, tulips and morning-glories. If they were hungry, they picked
radiant fruits which revealed the taste of Light to them and which had
juice that shone like the rays of the sun.

There was also, in a clump of bushes, a white marble pond which
possessed a magic power: its clear waters reflected not the faces, but
the souls of those who looked into it.

"It's a ridiculous invention," said the Cat, who steadily refused to
go near the pond.

You, my dear little readers, who know her thoughts as well as I do,
will not be surprised at her refusal. And you will also understand why
our faithful Tylo was not afraid to go and quench his thirst there: he
need not fear to reveal his thoughts, for he was the only creature
whose soul never altered. The dear Dog had no feelings but those of
love and kindness and devotion.

When Tyltyl bent over the magic mirror, he almost always saw the
picture of a splendid Blue Bird, for the constant wish to find him
filled his mind entirely. Then he would run to Light and entreat her: