Poor Tyltyl was quite as much terrified as Mytyl, but at each trial,
his will and courage were becoming greater; he was learning to master
himself; and nothing could induce him to fail in his mission. The
eleventh stroke rang out.

"The hour is passing!" he exclaimed. "It is time!"

And releasing himself resolutely from Mytyl's arms, he turned the
diamond....

A moment of terrible silence followed for the poor little children.
Then they saw the crosses totter, the mounds open, the slabs rise
up....

Mytyl hid her face against Tyltyl's chest:

"They're coming out!" she cried. "They're there!... They're
there!..."

The agony was more than the plucky little fellow could endure. He shut
his eyes and only kept himself from fainting by leaning against a tree
beside him. He remained like that for a minute that seemed to him like
a century, not daring to move, not daring to breathe. Then he heard
birds singing; a warm and scented breeze fanned his face; and, on his
hands, on his neck, he felt the soft heat of the balmy summer sun. Now
quite reassured, but unable to believe in so great a miracle, he
opened his eyes and at once began to shout with happiness and
admiration.

From all the open tombs came thousands of splendid flowers. They
spread everywhere, on the paths, on the trees, on the grass; and they
went up and up until it seemed that they would touch the sky. They
were great full-blown roses, showing their hearts, wonderful golden
hearts from which came the hot, bright rays which had wrapped Tyltyl
in that summer warmth. Round the roses, birds sang and bees buzzed
gaily.

"I can't believe it! It's not possible!" said Tyltyl. "What has become
of the tombs and the stone crosses?"

Dazzled and bewildered, the two children walked hand in hand through
the graveyard, of which not a trace remained, for there was nothing
but a wonderful garden on every side. They were as glad and happy as
could be, after their terrible fright. They had thought that ugly
skeletons would rise from the earth and run after them, pulling horrid
faces; they had imagined all sorts of awful things. And now, in the
presence of the truth, they saw that all that they had been told was a
great big story and that Death does not exist. They saw that there are
no Dead and that Life goes on always, always, but under fresh forms.
The fading rose sheds its pollen, which gives birth to other roses,
and its scattered petals scent the air. The fruits come when the
blossoms fall from the trees; and the dingy, hairy caterpillar turns
into a brilliant butterfly. Nothing perishes ... there are only
changes....

Beautiful birds circled all round Tyltyl and Mytyl. There were no blue
ones among them, but the two Children were so glad of their discovery
that they asked for nothing more. Astonished and delighted, they kept
on repeating:

"There are no Dead!... There are no Dead!..."

CHAPTER VIII

THE FOREST