As soon as Tyltyl and Mytyl were in bed, Light kissed them and faded
away at once, so as not to disturb their sleep with the rays that
always streamed from her beautiful self.

It must have been about midnight, when Tyltyl, who was dreaming of the
little Blue Children, felt a soft velvet paw pass to and fro over his
face. He was surprised and sat up in bed in a bit of a fright; but he
was soon reassured when he saw his friend Tylette's glowing eyes
glittering in the dark.

"Hush!" said the Cat in his ear. "Hush! Don't wake anybody. If we can
arrange to slip out without being seen, we shall catch the Blue Bird
to-night. I have risked my life, O my dearest master, in preparing a
plan which will certainly lead us to victory!"

"But," said the boy, kissing Tylette, "Light would be so glad to help
us ... and besides I should be ashamed to disobey her...."

"If you tell her," said the Cat, sharply, "all is lost, believe me. Do
as I say; and the day is ours."

As she spoke these words, she hastened to dress him and also Mytyl,
who had heard a noise and was asking to go with them.

"You don't understand," groaned Tyltyl. "You are too small: you don't
know what a wicked thing we are doing...."

But the treacherous Cat answered all his arguments, saying that the
reason why he had not found the Blue Bird so far was just the fault of
Light, who always brought brightness with her. Let the Children only
go hunting by themselves, in the dark, and they would soon find all
the Blue Birds that make men's happiness. The traitress displayed such
cleverness that, before long, Tyltyl's disobedience became a very fine
thing in his own eyes. Each of Tylette's words provided a good excuse
for his action or adorned it with a generous thought. He was too weak
to set his will against trickery, allowed himself to be persuaded and
walked out of the temple with a firm and cheerful step. Poor little
fellow: if he could only have foreseen the terrible trap that awaited
him!

Our three companions set out across the fields in the white light of
the moon. The Cat seemed greatly excited, did nothing but talk and
went so fast that the children were hardly able to keep up with her:

"This time," she declared, "we shall have the Blue Bird, I am sure of
it! I asked all the Trees in the very oldest forest; they know him,
because he hides among them. Then, in order to have everybody there, I
sent the Rabbit to beat the assembly and call the principal Animals in
the country."