They reached the edge of the dark forest in an hour's time. Then, at a
turn in the road, they saw, in the distance, some one who seemed to be
hurrying towards them. Tylette arched her back: she felt that it was
her old time enemy. She quivered with rage: was he once more going to
thwart her plans? Had he guessed her secret? Was he coming, at the
last moment, to save the Children's lives?

She leaned over to Tyltyl and whispered to him, in her most honeyed
voice:

"I am sorry to say it is our worthy friend the Dog. It is a thousand
pities, because his presence will make us fail in our object. He is on
the worst of terms with everybody, even the Trees. Do tell him to go
back!"

"Go away, you ugly thing!" said Tyltyl, shaking his fist at the Dog.

Dear old faithful Tylo, who had come because he suspected the Cat's
plans, was much hurt by these hard words. He was ready to cry, was
still out of breath from running and could think of nothing to say.

"Go away, I tell you!" said Tyltyl again. "We don't want you here and
there's an end of it.... You're a nuisance, there!..."

The Dog was an obedient animal and, at any other time, he would have
gone; but his affection told him what a serious business it was and he
stood stock still.

"Do you allow this disobedience?" said the Cat to Tyltyl, in a
whisper. "Hit him with your stick."

Tyltyl beat the Dog, as the Cat suggested:

"There, that will teach you to be more obedient!" he said.

The poor Dog howled at receiving the blows; but there was no limit to
his self-sacrifice. He went up to his young master pluckily and,
taking him in his arms, cried:

"I must kiss you now you've beaten me!"

Tyltyl, who was a good-hearted little fellow, did not know what to do;
and the Cat swore between her teeth like a wild beast. Fortunately,
dear little Mytyl interfered on our friend's behalf:

"No, no; I want him to stay," she pleaded. "I'm frightened when Tylo's
not with us."

Time was short and they had to come to a decision.

"I'll find some other way to get rid of the idiot!" thought the Cat.
And, turning to the Dog, she said, in her most gracious manner, "We
shall be _so_ pleased if you will join us!"

As they entered the great forest, the Children stuck close together,
with the Cat and the Dog on either side of them. They were awed by the
silence and the darkness and they felt much relieved when the Cat
exclaimed:

"Here we are! Turn the diamond!"