Then the light spread around them and showed them a wonderful sight.
They were standing in the middle of a large round space in the heart
of the forest, where all the old, old Trees seemed to reach up to the
sky. Wide avenues formed a white star amidst the dark green of the
wood. Everything was peaceful and still; but suddenly a strange shiver
ran through the foliage; the branches moved and stretched like human
arms; the roots raised the earth that covered them, came together,
took the shapes of legs and feet and stood on the ground; a tremendous
crash rang through the air; the trunks of the Trees burst open and
each of them let out its soul, which made its appearance like a funny
human figure.

Some stepped slowly from their trunks; others came out with a jump;
and all of them gathered inquisitively round our friends.

The talkative Poplar began to chatter like a magpie:

"Little Men! We shall be able to talk to them! We have done with
silence!... Where do they come from?... Who are they?"

And so he rattled on.

The Lime-tree, who was a jolly, fat fellow, came up calmly, smoking
his pipe; the conceited and dandified Chestnut-tree screwed his glass
into his eye to stare at the Children. He wore a coat of green silk
embroidered with pink and white flowers. He thought the little ones
too poor-looking and turned away in derision.

"He thinks he's everybody, since he has taken to living in town! He
despises us!" sneered the Poplar, who was jealous of him.

"Oh, dear, oh, dear!" wept the Willow, a wretched little stunted
fellow, who came clattering along in a pair of wooden shoes too big
for him. "They have come to cut off my head and arms for firewood!"

Tyltyl could not believe his eyes. He never stopped asking the Cat
questions:

"Who's this?... Who's that?..."

And Tylette introduced the soul of each Tree to him.

There was the Elm, who was a sort of short-winded, paunchy, crabby
gnome; the Beech, an elegant, sprightly person; the Birch, who looked
like the ghosts in the Palace of Night, with his white flowing
garments and his restless gestures. The tallest figure was the
Fir-tree: Tyltyl found it very difficult to see his face perched right
at the top of his long, thin body; but he looked gentle and sad,
whereas the Cypress, who stood near him, dressed all in black,
frightened Tyltyl terribly.