However, so far nothing very dreadful had happened. The Trees,
delighted at being able to talk, were all chattering together; and our
young friend was simply going to ask them where the Blue Bird was
hidden, when, all of a sudden, silence reigned. The Trees bowed
respectfully and stood aside to make way for an immensely old Tree,
dressed in a long gown embroidered with moss and lichen. He leaned
with one hand on a stick and with the other on a young Oak Sapling who
acted as his guide, for the Old Oak was blind. His long white beard
streamed in the wind.

"It's the King!" said Tyltyl to himself, when he saw his mistletoe
crown. "I will ask him the secret of the forest."

And he was just going up to him, when he stopped, seized with surprise
and joy: there sat the Blue Bird before him, perched on the old Oak's
shoulder.

"He has the Blue Bird!" cried the boy, gleefully. "Quick! Quick! Give
him to me!"

"Silence! Hold your tongue!" said the greatly shocked Trees.

"Take off your hat, Tyltyl," said the Cat. "It's the Oak!"

The poor Child at once obeyed with a smile; he did not understand the
danger that threatened him and he did not hesitate to answer, "Yes,
Sir," when the Oak asked him if he was Tyl the woodcutter's son.

Then the Oak, trembling with rage, began to lay a terrible charge
against Daddy Tyl:

"In my family alone," he said, "your father has put to death six
hundred of my sons, four hundred and seventy-five uncles and aunts,
twelve hundred cousins of both sexes, three hundred and eighty
daughters-in-law and twelve thousand great-grandsons!"

No doubt his anger made him exaggerate a little; but Tyltyl listened
without protest and said, very politely:

"I beg your pardon, Sir, for disturbing you.... The Cat said that you
would tell us where the Blue Bird is."

The Oak was too old not to know all there was to know about Men and
Animals. He smiled in his beard when he guessed the trap laid by the
Cat and he felt very glad at it, for he had long wished to revenge the
whole forest for the slavery to which Man had subjected it.

"It's for the Fairy Berylune's little girl, who is very ill," the boy
continued.

"Enough!" said the Oak, silencing him. "I do not hear the Animals....
Where are they?... All this concerns them as much as us.... We, the
Trees, must not assume the responsibility alone for the grave measures
that have become necessary."

"Here they come!" said the Fir-tree, looking over the top of the other
Trees. "They are following the Rabbit.... I can see the souls of the
Horse, the Bull, the Ox, the Cow, the Wolf, the Sheep, the Pig, the
Goat, and the Bear...."