All the Animals now arrived. They walked on their hind-legs and were
dressed like human beings. They solemnly took up their positions in a
circle among the Trees, all except the frivolous Goat, who began to
skip down the avenues, and the Pig, who hoped to find some glorious
truffles among the roots that had newly left the ground.

"Are all here present?" asked the Oak.

"The Hen could not leave her eggs," said the Rabbit, "the Hare was out
for a run, the Stag has pains in his horns and his corns, the Fox is
ill--here is the doctor's certificate--the Goose did not understand
and the Turkey flew into a passion...."

"Look!" whispered Tyltyl to Mytyl. "Aren't they funny? They are just
like the rich children's fine toys in the windows at Christmas-time."

The Rabbit especially made them laugh, with his cocked hat over his
big ears, his blue, embroidered coat and his drum slung in front of
him.

Meanwhile, the Oak was explaining the situation to his brothers the
Trees and to the Animals. Treacherous Tylette had been quite right in
reckoning on their hatred.

"The child you see before you," said the Oak, "thanks to a talisman
stolen from the powers of Earth, is able to take possession of our
Blue Bird and thus to snatch from us the secret which we have kept
since the origin of life.... Now we know enough of Man to entertain no
doubt as to the fate which he reserves for us, once he is in
possession of this secret.... Any hesitation would be both foolish and
criminal.... It is a serious moment; the child must be done away with
before it is too late...."

"What is he saying?" asked Tyltyl, who could not make out what the old
Tree was driving at.

The Dog was prowling round the Oak and now showed his fangs:

"Do you see my teeth, you old cripple?" he growled.

"He is insulting the Oak!" said the Beech indignantly.

"Drive him out!" shouted the Oak, angrily. "He's a traitor!"

"What did I tell you?" whispered the Cat to Tyltyl. "I will arrange
things.... But send him away."

"Will you be off!" said Tyltyl to the Dog.

"Do let me worry the gouty old beggar's moss slippers!" begged Tylo.

Tyltyl tried in vain to prevent him. The rage of Tylo, who understood
the danger, knew no bounds; and he would have succeeded in saving his
master, if the Cat had not thought of calling in the Ivy, who till
then had kept his distance. The Dog pranced about like a madman,
abusing everybody. He railed at the Ivy:

"Come on, if you dare, you old ball of twine, you!"