But Water pretended not to hear:

"Love the wells, listen to the brooks," she said. "I shall always be
there. When you sit down in the evening, beside the springs, try to
understand what they are trying to say...."

Then she had to break off, for a regular waterfall of tears came
gushing from her eyes, flooding all around her. However, she resumed:

"Think of me when you see the water-bottle.... You will find me also
in the ewer, the watering-can, the cistern and the tap...."

Then Sugar came up, with a limping walk, for he could hardly stand on
his feet. He uttered a few words of sorrow, in an affected voice and
then stopped, for tears, he said, were not in harmony with his
temperament.

"Humbug!" cried Bread.

"Sugar-plum! Lollipop! Caramel!" yelped Fire.

And all began to laugh, except the two children, who were very sad:

"Where are Tylette and Tylo gone to?" asked our hero.

At that moment, the Cat came running up, in a terrible state: her hair
was on end and dishevelled, her clothes were torn and she was holding
a handkerchief to her cheek, as though she had the tooth-ache. She
uttered terrible groans and was closely pursued by the Dog, who
overwhelmed her with bites, blows and kicks. The others rushed in
between them to separate them, but the two enemies continued to insult
and glare at each other. The Cat accused the Dog of pulling her tail
and putting tin tacks in her food and beating her. The Dog simply
growled and denied none of his actions:

"You've had some," he kept saying, "you've had some and you're going
to have some more!"

But, suddenly, he stopped and, as he was panting with excitement, it
could be seen that his tongue turned quite white: Light had told him
to kiss the Children for the last time.

"For the last time?" stammered poor Tylo. "Are we to part from these
poor Children?"

His grief was such that he was incapable of understanding anything.

"Yes," said Light. "The hour which you know of is at hand.... We are
going to return to silence...."

Thereupon the Dog, suddenly realizing his misfortune, began to utter
real howls of despair and fling himself upon the Children, whom he
loaded with mad and violent caresses:

"No! No!" he cried. "I refuse!... I refuse!... I shall always talk!...
And I shall be very good.... You will keep me with you and I shall
learn to read and write and play dominoes!... And I shall always be
very clean.... And I shall never steal anything in the kitchen
again...."

He went on his knees before the two Children, sobbing and entreating,
and, when Tyltyl, with his eyes full of tears, remained silent, dear
Tylo had a last magnificent idea: running up to the Cat, he offered,
with smiles that looked like grins, to kiss her. Tylette, who did not
possess his spirit of self-sacrifice, leaped back and took refuge by
Mytyl's side. Then Mytyl said, innocently: