"Look at her," said Goody Berlingot, quite overcome with joy. "She can
run, she can dance, she can fly! It's a miracle! When she saw the
bird, she jumped, just like that...."

And Goody Berlingot hopped from one leg to the other at the risk of
falling and breaking her long, hooked nose.

The Children clapped their hands and everybody laughed.

The little girl was there, in her long white night-dress, standing in
the middle of the kitchen, a little surprised to find herself on her
feet after so many months' illness. She smiled and pressed Tyltyl's
dove to her heart.

Tyltyl looked first at the child and then at Mytyl:

"Don't you think she's very like Light?" he asked.

"She is much smaller," said Mytyl.

"Yes, indeed!" said Tyltyl. "But she will grow!..."

And the three Children tried to put a little food down the Bird's
beak, while the parents began to feel easier in their minds and looked
at them and smiled.

Tyltyl was radiant. I will not conceal from you, my dear little
readers, that the Dove had hardly changed colour at all and that it
was joy and happiness that decked him with a magnificent bright blue
plumage in our hero's eyes. No matter! Tyltyl, without knowing it, had
discovered Light's great secret, which is _that we draw nearer to
happiness by trying to give it to others_.

But now something happened. Everybody became excited, the Children
screamed, the parents threw up their arms and rushed to the open door:
the Bird had suddenly escaped! He was flying away as fast as he could.

"My bird! My bird!" sobbed the little girl.

But Tyltyl was the first to run to the staircase and he returned in
triumph:

"It's all right!" he said. "Don't cry! He is still in the house and we
shall find him again."

And he gave a kiss to the little girl, who was already smiling through
her tears:

"You'll be sure to catch him again, won't you?" she asked.

"Trust me," replied our friend, confidentially. "I now know where he
is."

You also, my dear little readers, now know where the Blue Bird is.
Dear Light revealed nothing to the woodcutter's Children, but she
showed them the road to happiness by teaching them to be good and kind
and generous.

Suppose that, at the beginning of this story, she had said to them:

"Go straight back home. The Blue Bird is there, in the humble cottage,
in the wicker cage, with your dear father and mother who love you."

The Children would never have believed her:

"What!" Tyltyl would have answered. "The Blue Bird, my dove? Nonsense:
my dove is grey!... Happiness, in the cottage? With Daddy and Mummy?
Oh, I say! There are no toys at home and it's awfully boring there: we
want to go ever so far and meet with tremendous adventures and have
all sorts of fun...."