To be sure, if you came down to harsh facts . . . which, it must be
confessed, Anne seldom did until she had to . . . it did not seem
likely that there was much promising material for celebrities in
Avonlea school; but you could never tell what might happen if a teacher
used her influence for good. Anne had certain rose-tinted ideals of
what a teacher might accomplish if she only went the right way about
it; and she was in the midst of a delightful scene, forty years hence,
with a famous personage . . . just exactly what he was to be famous for
was left in convenient haziness, but Anne thought it would be rather
nice to have him a college president or a Canadian premier . . . bowing
low over her wrinkled hand and assuring her that it was she who had
first kindled his ambition, and that all his success in life was due to
the lessons she had instilled so long ago in Avonlea school. This
pleasant vision was shattered by a most unpleasant interruption.

A demure little Jersey cow came scuttling down the lane and five
seconds later Mr. Harrison arrived . . . if “arrived” be not too mild a
term to describe the manner of his irruption into the yard.

He bounced over the fence without waiting to open the gate, and angrily
confronted astonished Anne, who had risen to her feet and stood looking
at him in some bewilderment. Mr. Harrison was their new righthand
neighbor and she had never met him before, although she had seen him
once or twice.

In early April, before Anne had come home from Queen’s, Mr. Robert
Bell, whose farm adjoined the Cuthbert place on the west, had sold out
and moved to Charlottetown. His farm had been bought by a certain Mr.
J. A. Harrison, whose name, and the fact that he was a New Brunswick
man, were all that was known about him. But before he had been a month
in Avonlea he had won the reputation of being an odd person . . . “a
crank,” Mrs. Rachel Lynde said. Mrs. Rachel was an outspoken lady, as
those of you who may have already made her acquaintance will remember.
Mr. Harrison was certainly different from other people . . . and that
is the essential characteristic of a crank, as everybody knows.