In the first place he kept house for himself and had publicly stated
that he wanted no fools of women around his diggings. Feminine Avonlea
took its revenge by the gruesome tales it related about his
house-keeping and cooking. He had hired little John Henry Carter of
White Sands and John Henry started the stories. For one thing, there
was never any stated time for meals in the Harrison establishment. Mr.
Harrison “got a bite” when he felt hungry, and if John Henry were
around at the time, he came in for a share, but if he were not, he had
to wait until Mr. Harrison’s next hungry spell. John Henry mournfully
averred that he would have starved to death if it wasn’t that he got
home on Sundays and got a good filling up, and that his mother always
gave him a basket of “grub” to take back with him on Monday mornings.

As for washing dishes, Mr. Harrison never made any pretence of doing it
unless a rainy Sunday came. Then he went to work and washed them all at
once in the rainwater hogshead, and left them to drain dry.

Again, Mr. Harrison was “close.” When he was asked to subscribe to the
Rev. Mr. Allan’s salary he said he’d wait and see how many dollars’
worth of good he got out of his preaching first . . . he didn’t believe
in buying a pig in a poke. And when Mrs. Lynde went to ask for a
contribution to missions . . . and incidentally to see the inside of
the house . . . he told her there were more heathens among the old
woman gossips in Avonlea than anywhere else he knew of, and he’d
cheerfully contribute to a mission for Christianizing them if she’d
undertake it. Mrs. Rachel got herself away and said it was a mercy poor
Mrs. Robert Bell was safe in her grave, for it would have broken her
heart to see the state of her house in which she used to take so much
pride.

“Why, she scrubbed the kitchen floor every second day,” Mrs. Lynde told
Marilla Cuthbert indignantly, “and if you could see it now! I had to
hold up my skirts as I walked across it.”

Finally, Mr. Harrison kept a parrot called Ginger. Nobody in Avonlea
had ever kept a parrot before; consequently that proceeding was
considered barely respectable. And such a parrot! If you took John
Henry Carter’s word for it, never was such an unholy bird. It swore
terribly. Mrs. Carter would have taken John Henry away at once if she
had been sure she could get another place for him. Besides, Ginger had
bitten a piece right out of the back of John Henry’s neck one day when
he had stooped down too near the cage. Mrs. Carter showed everybody the
mark when the luckless John Henry went home on Sundays.