All these things flashed through Anne’s mind as Mr. Harrison stood,
quite speechless with wrath apparently, before her. In his most amiable
mood Mr. Harrison could not have been considered a handsome man; he was
short and fat and bald; and now, with his round face purple with rage
and his prominent blue eyes almost sticking out of his head, Anne
thought he was really the ugliest person she had ever seen.

All at once Mr. Harrison found his voice.

“I’m not going to put up with this,” he spluttered, “not a day longer,
do you hear, miss. Bless my soul, this is the third time, miss . . .
the third time! Patience has ceased to be a virtue, miss. I warned your
aunt the last time not to let it occur again . . . and she’s let it . .
. she’s done it . . . what does she mean by it, that is what I want to
know. That is what I’m here about, miss.”

“Will you explain what the trouble is?” asked Anne, in her most
dignified manner. She had been practicing it considerably of late to
have it in good working order when school began; but it had no apparent
effect on the irate J. A. Harrison.

“Trouble, is it? Bless my soul, trouble enough, I should think. The
trouble is, miss, that I found that Jersey cow of your aunt’s in my
oats again, not half an hour ago. The third time, mark you. I found her
in last Tuesday and I found her in yesterday. I came here and told your
aunt not to let it occur again. She has let it occur again. Where’s
your aunt, miss? I just want to see her for a minute and give her a
piece of my mind . . . a piece of J. A. Harrison’s mind, miss.”

“If you mean Miss Marilla Cuthbert, she is not my aunt, and she has
gone down to East Grafton to see a distant relative of hers who is very
ill,” said Anne, with due increase of dignity at every word. “I am very
sorry that my cow should have broken into your oats . . . she is my cow
and not Miss Cuthbert’s . . . Matthew gave her to me three years ago
when she was a little calf and he bought her from Mr. Bell.”

“Sorry, miss! Sorry isn’t going to help matters any. You’d better go
and look at the havoc that animal has made in my oats . . . trampled
them from center to circumference, miss.”

“I am very sorry,” repeated Anne firmly, “but perhaps if you kept your
fences in better repair Dolly might not have broken in. It is your part
of the line fence that separates your oatfield from our pasture and I
noticed the other day that it was not in very good condition.”