“My fence is all right,” snapped Mr. Harrison, angrier than ever at
this carrying of the war into the enemy’s country. “The jail fence
couldn’t keep a demon of a cow like that out. And I can tell you, you
redheaded snippet, that if the cow is yours, as you say, you’d be
better employed in watching her out of other people’s grain than in
sitting round reading yellow-covered novels,” . . . with a scathing
glance at the innocent tan-colored Virgil by Anne’s feet.

Something at that moment was red besides Anne’s hair . . . which had
always been a tender point with her.

“I’d rather have red hair than none at all, except a little fringe
round my ears,” she flashed.

The shot told, for Mr. Harrison was really very sensitive about his
bald head. His anger choked him up again and he could only glare
speechlessly at Anne, who recovered her temper and followed up her
advantage.

“I can make allowance for you, Mr. Harrison, because I have an
imagination. I can easily imagine how very trying it must be to find a
cow in your oats and I shall not cherish any hard feelings against you
for the things you’ve said. I promise you that Dolly shall never break
into your oats again. I give you my word of honor on _that_ point.”

“Well, mind you she doesn’t,” muttered Mr. Harrison in a somewhat
subdued tone; but he stamped off angrily enough and Anne heard him
growling to himself until he was out of earshot.

Grievously disturbed in mind, Anne marched across the yard and shut the
naughty Jersey up in the milking pen.

“She can’t possibly get out of that unless she tears the fence down,”
she reflected. “She looks pretty quiet now. I daresay she has sickened
herself on those oats. I wish I’d sold her to Mr. Shearer when he
wanted her last week, but I thought it was just as well to wait until
we had the auction of the stock and let them all go together. I believe
it is true about Mr. Harrison being a crank. Certainly there’s nothing
of the kindred spirit about _him_.”

Anne had always a weather eye open for kindred spirits.

Marilla Cuthbert was driving into the yard as Anne returned from the
house, and the latter flew to get tea ready. They discussed the matter
at the tea table.