“Avonlea school won’t be the worse for a little new blood,” said
Marilla drily, “and if this boy is anything like his father he’ll be
all right. Steve Irving was the nicest boy that was ever raised in
these parts, though some people did call him proud. I should think Mrs.
Irving would be very glad to have the child. She has been very lonesome
since her husband died.”

“Oh, the boy may be well enough, but he’ll be different from Avonlea
children,” said Mrs. Rachel, as if that clinched the matter. Mrs.
Rachel’s opinions concerning any person, place, or thing, were always
warranted to wear. “What’s this I hear about your going to start up a
Village Improvement Society, Anne?”

“I was just talking it over with some of the girls and boys at the last
Debating Club,” said Anne, flushing. “They thought it would be rather
nice . . . and so do Mr. and Mrs. Allan. Lots of villages have them
now.”

“Well, you’ll get into no end of hot water if you do. Better leave it
alone, Anne, that’s what. People don’t like being improved.”

“Oh, we are not going to try to improve the _people_. It is Avonlea
itself. There are lots of things which might be done to make it
prettier. For instance, if we could coax Mr. Levi Boulter to pull down
that dreadful old house on his upper farm wouldn’t that be an
improvement?”

“It certainly would,” admitted Mrs. Rachel. “That old ruin has been an
eyesore to the settlement for years. But if you Improvers can coax Levi
Boulter to do anything for the public that he isn’t to be paid for
doing, may I be there to see and hear the process, that’s what. I don’t
want to discourage you, Anne, for there may be something in your idea,
though I suppose you did get it out of some rubbishy Yankee magazine;
but you’ll have your hands full with your school and I advise you as a
friend not to bother with your improvements, that’s what. But there, I
know you’ll go ahead with it if you’ve set your mind on it. You were
always one to carry a thing through somehow.”

Something about the firm outlines of Anne’s lips told that Mrs. Rachel
was not far astray in this estimate. Anne’s heart was bent on forming
the Improvement Society. Gilbert Blythe, who was to teach in White
Sands but would always be home from Friday night to Monday morning, was
enthusiastic about it; and most of the other folks were willing to go
in for anything that meant occasional meetings and consequently some
“fun.” As for what the “improvements” were to be, nobody had any very
clear idea except Anne and Gilbert. They had talked them over and
planned them out until an ideal Avonlea existed in their minds, if
nowhere else.

Mrs. Rachel had still another item of news.

“They’ve given the Carmody school to a Priscilla Grant. Didn’t you go
to Queen’s with a girl of that name, Anne?”