“Yes, indeed. Priscilla to teach at Carmody! How perfectly lovely!”
exclaimed Anne, her gray eyes lighting up until they looked like
evening stars, causing Mrs. Lynde to wonder anew if she would ever get
it settled to her satisfaction whether Anne Shirley were really a
pretty girl or not.

II
Selling in Haste and Repenting at Leisure

Anne drove over to Carmody on a shopping expedition the next afternoon
and took Diana Barry with her. Diana was, of course, a pledged member
of the Improvement Society, and the two girls talked about little else
all the way to Carmody and back.

“The very first thing we ought to do when we get started is to have
that hall painted,” said Diana, as they drove past the Avonlea hall, a
rather shabby building set down in a wooded hollow, with spruce trees
hooding it about on all sides. “It’s a disgraceful looking place and we
must attend to it even before we try to get Mr. Levi Boulder to pull
his house down. Father says we’ll never succeed in doing _that_ . . .
Levi Boulter is too mean to spend the time it would take.”

“Perhaps he’ll let the boys take it down if they promise to haul the
boards and split them up for him for kindling wood,” said Anne
hopefully. “We must do our best and be content to go slowly at first.
We can’t expect to improve everything all at once. We’ll have to
educate public sentiment first, of course.”

Diana wasn’t exactly sure what educating public sentiment meant; but it
sounded fine and she felt rather proud that she was going to belong to
a society with such an aim in view.

“I thought of something last night that we could do, Anne. You know
that three-cornered piece of ground where the roads from Carmody and
Newbridge and White Sands meet? It’s all grown over with young spruce;
but wouldn’t it be nice to have them all cleared out, and just leave
the two or three birch trees that are on it?”

“Splendid,” agreed Anne gaily. “And have a rustic seat put under the
birches. And when spring comes we’ll have a flower-bed made in the
middle of it and plant geraniums.”

“Yes; only we’ll have to devise some way of getting old Mrs. Hiram
Sloane to keep her cow off the road, or she’ll eat our geraniums up,”
laughed Diana. “I begin to see what you mean by educating public
sentiment, Anne. There’s the old Boulter house now. Did you ever see
such a rookery? And perched right close to the road too. An old house
with its windows gone always makes me think of something dead with its
eyes picked out.”