“I think an old, deserted house is such a sad sight,” said Anne
dreamily. “It always seems to me to be thinking about its past and
mourning for its old-time joys. Marilla says that a large family was
raised in that old house long ago, and that it was a real pretty place,
with a lovely garden and roses climbing all over it. It was full of
little children and laughter and songs; and now it is empty, and
nothing ever wanders through it but the wind. How lonely and sorrowful
it must feel! Perhaps they all come back on moonlit nights . . . the
ghosts of the little children of long ago and the roses and the songs .
. . and for a little while the old house can dream it is young and
joyous again.”

Diana shook her head.

“I never imagine things like that about places now, Anne. Don’t you
remember how cross mother and Marilla were when we imagined ghosts into
the Haunted Wood? To this day I can’t go through that bush comfortably
after dark; and if I began imagining such things about the old Boulter
house I’d be frightened to pass it too. Besides, those children aren’t
dead. They’re all grown up and doing well . . . and one of them is a
butcher. And flowers and songs couldn’t have ghosts anyhow.”

Anne smothered a little sigh. She loved Diana dearly and they had
always been good comrades. But she had long ago learned that when she
wandered into the realm of fancy she must go alone. The way to it was
by an enchanted path where not even her dearest might follow her.

A thunder-shower came up while the girls were at Carmody; it did not
last long, however, and the drive home, through lanes where the
raindrops sparkled on the boughs and little leafy valleys where the
drenched ferns gave out spicy odors, was delightful. But just as they
turned into the Cuthbert lane Anne saw something that spoiled the
beauty of the landscape for her.

Before them on the right extended Mr. Harrison’s broad, gray-green
field of late oats, wet and luxuriant; and there, standing squarely in
the middle of it, up to her sleek sides in the lush growth, and
blinking at them calmly over the intervening tassels, was a Jersey cow!

Anne dropped the reins and stood up with a tightening of the lips that
boded no good to the predatory quadruped. Not a word said she, but she
climbed nimbly down over the wheels, and whisked across the fence
before Diana understood what had happened.

“Anne, come back,” shrieked the latter, as soon as she found her voice.
“You’ll ruin your dress in that wet grain . . . ruin it. She doesn’t
hear me! Well, she’ll never get that cow out by herself. I must go and
help her, of course.”