“Oh, she won’t care. Dolly was my own cow and it isn’t likely she’d
bring more than twenty dollars at the auction. But oh dear, if Mr.
Harrison sees that grain he will know she has been in again, and after
my giving him my word of honor that I’d never let it happen! Well, it
has taught me a lesson not to give my word of honor about cows. A cow
that could jump over or break through our milk-pen fence couldn’t be
trusted anywhere.”

Marilla had gone down to Mrs. Lynde’s, and when she returned knew all
about Dolly’s sale and transfer, for Mrs. Lynde had seen most of the
transaction from her window and guessed the rest.

“I suppose it’s just as well she’s gone, though you _do_ do things in a
dreadful headlong fashion, Anne. I don’t see how she got out of the
pen, though. She must have broken some of the boards off.”

“I didn’t think of looking,” said Anne, “but I’ll go and see now.
Martin has never come back yet. Perhaps some more of his aunts have
died. I think it’s something like Mr. Peter Sloane and the
octogenarians. The other evening Mrs. Sloane was reading a newspaper
and she said to Mr. Sloane, ‘I see here that another octogenarian has
just died. What is an octogenarian, Peter?’ And Mr. Sloane said he
didn’t know, but they must be very sickly creatures, for you never
heard tell of them but they were dying. That’s the way with Martin’s
aunts.”

“Martin’s just like all the rest of those French,” said Marilla in
disgust. “You can’t depend on them for a day.” Marilla was looking over
Anne’s Carmody purchases when she heard a shrill shriek in the
barnyard. A minute later Anne dashed into the kitchen, wringing her
hands.

“Anne Shirley, what’s the matter now?”

“Oh, Marilla, whatever shall I do? This is terrible. And it’s all my
fault. Oh, will I _ever_ learn to stop and reflect a little before
doing reckless things? Mrs. Lynde always told me I would do something
dreadful some day, and now I’ve done it!”

“Anne, you are the most exasperating girl! _What_ is it you’ve done?”

“Sold Mr. Harrison’s Jersey cow . . . the one he bought from Mr. Bell .
. . to Mr. Shearer! Dolly is out in the milking pen this very minute.”

“Anne Shirley, are you dreaming?”

“I only wish I were. There’s no dream about it, though it’s very like a
nightmare. And Mr. Harrison’s cow is in Charlottetown by this time. Oh,
Marilla, I thought I’d finished getting into scrapes, and here I am in
the very worst one I ever was in in my life. What can I do?”

“Do? There’s nothing to do, child, except go and see Mr. Harrison about
it. We can offer him our Jersey in exchange if he doesn’t want to take
the money. She is just as good as his.”

“I’m sure he’ll be awfully cross and disagreeable about it, though,”
moaned Anne.