“I daresay he will. He seems to be an irritable sort of a man. I’ll go
and explain to him if you like.”

“No, indeed, I’m not as mean as that,” exclaimed Anne. “This is all my
fault and I’m certainly not going to let you take my punishment. I’ll
go myself and I’ll go at once. The sooner it’s over the better, for it
will be terribly humiliating.”

Poor Anne got her hat and her twenty dollars and was passing out when
she happened to glance through the open pantry door. On the table
reposed a nut cake which she had baked that morning . . . a
particularly toothsome concoction iced with pink icing and adorned with
walnuts. Anne had intended it for Friday evening, when the youth of
Avonlea were to meet at Green Gables to organize the Improvement
Society. But what were they compared to the justly offended Mr.
Harrison? Anne thought that cake ought to soften the heart of any man,
especially one who had to do his own cooking, and she promptly popped
it into a box. She would take it to Mr. Harrison as a peace offering.

“That is, if he gives me a chance to say anything at all,” she thought
ruefully, as she climbed the lane fence and started on a short cut
across the fields, golden in the light of the dreamy August evening. “I
know now just how people feel who are being led to execution.”

III
Mr. Harrison at Home

Mr. Harrison’s house was an old-fashioned, low-eaved, whitewashed
structure, set against a thick spruce grove.

Mr. Harrison himself was sitting on his vineshaded veranda, in his
shirt sleeves, enjoying his evening pipe. When he realized who was
coming up the path he sprang suddenly to his feet, bolted into the
house, and shut the door. This was merely the uncomfortable result of
his surprise, mingled with a good deal of shame over his outburst of
temper the day before. But it nearly swept the remnant of her courage
from Anne’s heart.

“If he’s so cross now what will he be when he hears what I’ve done,”
she reflected miserably, as she rapped at the door.

But Mr. Harrison opened it, smiling sheepishly, and invited her to
enter in a tone quite mild and friendly, if somewhat nervous. He had
laid aside his pipe and donned his coat; he offered Anne a very dusty
chair very politely, and her reception would have passed off pleasantly
enough if it had not been for the telltale of a parrot who was peering
through the bars of his cage with wicked golden eyes. No sooner had
Anne seated herself than Ginger exclaimed,

“Bless my soul, what’s that redheaded snippet coming here for?”

It would be hard to say whose face was the redder, Mr. Harrison’s or
Anne’s.