“I don’t, that’s a fact, and I’m mighty fond of it, too. I’m much
obliged to you. It looks good on top. I hope it’s good all the way
through.”

“It is,” said Anne, gaily confident. “I have made cakes in my time that
were _not_, as Mrs. Allan could tell you, but this one is all right. I
made it for the Improvement Society, but I can make another for them.”

“Well, I’ll tell you what, miss, you must help me eat it. I’ll put the
kettle on and we’ll have a cup of tea. How will that do?”

“Will you let me make the tea?” said Anne dubiously.

Mr. Harrison chuckled.

“I see you haven’t much confidence in my ability to make tea. You’re
wrong . . . I can brew up as good a jorum of tea as you ever drank. But
go ahead yourself. Fortunately it rained last Sunday, so there’s plenty
of clean dishes.”

Anne hopped briskly up and went to work. She washed the teapot in
several waters before she put the tea to steep. Then she swept the
stove and set the table, bringing the dishes out of the pantry. The
state of that pantry horrified Anne, but she wisely said nothing. Mr.
Harrison told her where to find the bread and butter and a can of
peaches. Anne adorned the table with a bouquet from the garden and shut
her eyes to the stains on the tablecloth. Soon the tea was ready and
Anne found herself sitting opposite Mr. Harrison at his own table,
pouring his tea for him, and chatting freely to him about her school
and friends and plans. She could hardly believe the evidence of her
senses.

Mr. Harrison had brought Ginger back, averring that the poor bird would
be lonesome; and Anne, feeling that she could forgive everybody and
everything, offered him a walnut. But Ginger’s feelings had been
grievously hurt and he rejected all overtures of friendship. He sat
moodily on his perch and ruffled his feathers up until he looked like a
mere ball of green and gold.

“Why do you call him Ginger?” asked Anne, who liked appropriate names
and thought Ginger accorded not at all with such gorgeous plumage.

“My brother the sailor named him. Maybe it had some reference to his
temper. I think a lot of that bird though . . . you’d be surprised if
you knew how much. He has his faults of course. That bird has cost me a
good deal one way and another. Some people object to his swearing
habits but he can’t be broken of them. I’ve tried . . . other people
have tried. Some folks have prejudices against parrots. Silly, ain’t
it? I like them myself. Ginger’s a lot of company to me. Nothing would
induce me to give that bird up . . . nothing in the world, miss.”