Mr. Harrison flung the last sentence at Anne as explosively as if he
suspected her of some latent design of persuading him to give Ginger
up. Anne, however, was beginning to like the queer, fussy, fidgety
little man, and before the meal was over they were quite good friends.
Mr. Harrison found out about the Improvement Society and was disposed
to approve of it.

“That’s right. Go ahead. There’s lots of room for improvement in this
settlement . . . and in the people too.”

“Oh, I don’t know,” flashed Anne. To herself, or to her particular
cronies, she might admit that there were some small imperfections,
easily removable, in Avonlea and its inhabitants. But to hear a
practical outsider like Mr. Harrison saying it was an entirely
different thing. “I think Avonlea is a lovely place; and the people in
it are very nice, too.”

“I guess you’ve got a spice of temper,” commented Mr. Harrison,
surveying the flushed cheeks and indignant eyes opposite him. “It goes
with hair like yours, I reckon. Avonlea is a pretty decent place or I
wouldn’t have located here; but I suppose even you will admit that it
has _some_ faults?”

“I like it all the better for them,” said loyal Anne. “I don’t like
places or people either that haven’t any faults. I think a truly
perfect person would be very uninteresting. Mrs. Milton White says she
never met a perfect person, but she’s heard enough about one . . . her
husband’s first wife. Don’t you think it must be very uncomfortable to
be married to a man whose first wife was perfect?”

“It would be more uncomfortable to be married to the perfect wife,”
declared Mr. Harrison, with a sudden and inexplicable warmth.

When tea was over Anne insisted on washing the dishes, although Mr.
Harrison assured her that there were enough in the house to do for
weeks yet. She would dearly have loved to sweep the floor also, but no
broom was visible and she did not like to ask where it was for fear
there wasn’t one at all.

“You might run across and talk to me once in a while,” suggested Mr.
Harrison when she was leaving. “’Tisn’t far and folks ought to be
neighborly. I’m kind of interested in that society of yours. Seems to
me there’ll be some fun in it. Who are you going to tackle first?”

“We are not going to meddle with _people_ . . . it is only _places_ we
mean to improve,” said Anne, in a dignified tone. She rather suspected
that Mr. Harrison was making fun of the project.

When she had gone Mr. Harrison watched her from the window . . . a
lithe, girlish shape, tripping lightheartedly across the fields in the
sunset afterglow.

“I’m a crusty, lonesome, crabbed old chap,” he said aloud, “but there’s
something about that little girl makes me feel young again . . . and
it’s such a pleasant sensation I’d like to have it repeated once in a
while.”