“Redheaded snippet,” croaked Ginger mockingly.

Mr. Harrison shook his fist at the parrot.

“You ornery bird,” he muttered, “I almost wish I’d wrung your neck when
my brother the sailor brought you home. Will you never be done getting
me into trouble?”

Anne ran home blithely and recounted her adventures to Marilla, who had
been not a little alarmed by her long absence and was on the point of
starting out to look for her.

“It’s a pretty good world, after all, isn’t it, Marilla?” concluded
Anne happily. “Mrs. Lynde was complaining the other day that it wasn’t
much of a world. She said whenever you looked forward to anything
pleasant you were sure to be more or less disappointed . . . perhaps
that is true. But there is a good side to it too. The bad things don’t
always come up to your expectations either . . . they nearly always
turn out ever so much better than you think. I looked forward to a
dreadfully unpleasant experience when I went over to Mr. Harrison’s
tonight; and instead he was quite kind and I had almost a nice time. I
think we’re going to be real good friends if we make plenty of
allowances for each other, and everything has turned out for the best.
But all the same, Marilla, I shall certainly never again sell a cow
before making sure to whom she belongs. And I do _not_ like parrots!”

IV
Different Opinions

One evening at sunset, Jane Andrews, Gilbert Blythe, and Anne Shirley
were lingering by a fence in the shadow of gently swaying spruce
boughs, where a wood cut known as the Birch Path joined the main road.
Jane had been up to spend the afternoon with Anne, who walked part of
the way home with her; at the fence they met Gilbert, and all three
were now talking about the fateful morrow; for that morrow was the
first of September and the schools would open. Jane would go to
Newbridge and Gilbert to White Sands.

“You both have the advantage of me,” sighed Anne. “You’re going to
teach children who don’t know you, but I have to teach my own old
schoolmates, and Mrs. Lynde says she’s afraid they won’t respect me as
they would a stranger unless I’m very cross from the first. But I don’t
believe a teacher should be cross. Oh, it seems to me such a
responsibility!”

“I guess we’ll get on all right,” said Jane comfortably. Jane was not
troubled by any aspirations to be an influence for good. She meant to
earn her salary fairly, please the trustees, and get her name on the
School Inspector’s roll of honor. Further ambitions Jane had none. “The
main thing will be to keep order and a teacher has to be a little cross
to do that. If my pupils won’t do as I tell them I shall punish them.”

“How?”

“Give them a good whipping, of course.”

“Oh, Jane, you wouldn’t,” cried Anne, shocked. “Jane, you _couldn’t!_”