“Indeed, I could and would, if they deserved it,” said Jane decidedly.

“I could _never_ whip a child,” said Anne with equal decision. “I don’t
believe in it _at all_. Miss Stacy never whipped any of us and she had
perfect order; and Mr. Phillips was always whipping and he had no order
at all. No, if I can’t get along without whipping I shall not try to
teach school. There are better ways of managing. I shall try to win my
pupils’ affections and then they will _want_ to do what I tell them.”

“But suppose they don’t?” said practical Jane.

“I wouldn’t whip them anyhow. I’m sure it wouldn’t do any good. Oh,
don’t whip your pupils, Jane dear, no matter what they do.”

“What do you think about it, Gilbert?” demanded Jane. “Don’t you think
there are some children who really need a whipping now and then?”

“Don’t you think it’s a cruel, barbarous thing to whip a child . . .
_any_ child?” exclaimed Anne, her face flushing with earnestness.

“Well,” said Gilbert slowly, torn between his real convictions and his
wish to measure up to Anne’s ideal, “there’s something to be said on
both sides. I don’t believe in whipping children _much_. I think, as
you say, Anne, that there are better ways of managing as a rule, and
that corporal punishment should be a last resort. But on the other
hand, as Jane says, I believe there is an occasional child who can’t be
influenced in any other way and who, in short, needs a whipping and
would be improved by it. Corporal punishment as a last resort is to be
my rule.”

Gilbert, having tried to please both sides, succeeded, as is usual and
eminently right, in pleasing neither. Jane tossed her head.

“I’ll whip my pupils when they’re naughty. It’s the shortest and
easiest way of convincing them.”

Anne gave Gilbert a disappointed glance.

“I shall never whip a child,” she repeated firmly. “I feel sure it
isn’t either right or necessary.”

“Suppose a boy sauced you back when you told him to do something?” said
Jane.

“I’d keep him in after school and talk kindly and firmly to him,” said
Anne. “There is some good in every person if you can find it. It is a
teacher’s duty to find and develop it. That is what our School
Management professor at Queen’s told us, you know. Do you suppose you
could find any good in a child by whipping him? It’s far more important
to influence the children aright than it is even to teach them the
three R’s, Professor Rennie says.”

“But the Inspector examines them in the three R’s, mind you, and he
won’t give you a good report if they don’t come up to his standard,”
protested Jane.

“I’d rather have my pupils love me and look back to me in after years
as a real helper than be on the roll of honor,” asserted Anne
decidedly.

“Wouldn’t you punish children at all, when they misbehaved?” asked
Gilbert.