“I shall not use anything of the sort. I’m not going to whip my
pupils.”

“Bless my soul,” exclaimed Mr. Harrison in genuine astonishment, “how
do you lay out to keep order then?”

“I shall govern by affection, Mr. Harrison.”

“It won’t do,” said Mr. Harrison, “won’t do at all, Anne. ‘Spare the
rod and spoil the child.’ When I went to school the master whipped me
regular every day because he said if I wasn’t in mischief just then I
was plotting it.”

“Methods have changed since your schooldays, Mr. Harrison.”

“But human nature hasn’t. Mark my words, you’ll never manage the young
fry unless you keep a rod in pickle for them. The thing is impossible.”

“Well, I’m going to try my way first,” said Anne, who had a fairly
strong will of her own and was apt to cling very tenaciously to her
theories.

“You’re pretty stubborn, I reckon,” was Mr. Harrison’s way of putting
it. “Well, well, we’ll see. Someday when you get riled up . . . and
people with hair like yours are desperate apt to get riled . . . you’ll
forget all your pretty little notions and give some of them a whaling.
You’re too young to be teaching anyhow . . . far too young and
childish.”

Altogether, Anne went to bed that night in a rather pessimistic mood.
She slept poorly and was so pale and tragic at breakfast next morning
that Marilla was alarmed and insisted on making her take a cup of
scorching ginger tea. Anne sipped it patiently, although she could not
imagine what good ginger tea would do. Had it been some magic brew,
potent to confer age and experience, Anne would have swallowed a quart
of it without flinching.

“Marilla, what if I fail!”

“You’ll hardly fail completely in one day and there’s plenty more days
coming,” said Marilla. “The trouble with you, Anne, is that you’ll
expect to teach those children everything and reform all their faults
right off, and if you can’t you’ll think you’ve failed.”

V
A Full-fledged Schoolma’am

When Anne reached the school that morning . . . for the first time in
her life she had traversed the Birch Path deaf and blind to its
beauties . . . all was quiet and still. The preceding teacher had
trained the children to be in their places at her arrival, and when
Anne entered the schoolroom she was confronted by prim rows of “shining
morning faces” and bright, inquisitive eyes. She hung up her hat and
faced her pupils, hoping that she did not look as frightened and
foolish as she felt and that they would not perceive how she was
trembling.