She had sat up until nearly twelve the preceding night composing a
speech she meant to make to her pupils upon opening the school. She had
revised and improved it painstakingly, and then she had learned it off
by heart. It was a very good speech and had some very fine ideas in it,
especially about mutual help and earnest striving after knowledge. The
only trouble was that she could not now remember a word of it.

After what seemed to her a year . . . about ten seconds in reality . .
. she said faintly, “Take your Testaments, please,” and sank
breathlessly into her chair under cover of the rustle and clatter of
desk lids that followed. While the children read their verses Anne
marshalled her shaky wits into order and looked over the array of
little pilgrims to the Grownup Land.

Most of them were, of course, quite well known to her. Her own
classmates had passed out in the preceding year but the rest had all
gone to school with her, excepting the primer class and ten newcomers
to Avonlea. Anne secretly felt more interest in these ten than in those
whose possibilities were already fairly well mapped out to her. To be
sure, they might be just as commonplace as the rest; but on the other
hand there _might_ be a genius among them. It was a thrilling idea.

Sitting by himself at a corner desk was Anthony Pye. He had a dark,
sullen little face, and was staring at Anne with a hostile expression
in his black eyes. Anne instantly made up her mind that she would win
that boy’s affection and discomfit the Pyes utterly.

In the other corner another strange boy was sitting with Arty Sloane. .
. a jolly looking little chap, with a snub nose, freckled face, and
big, light blue eyes, fringed with whitish lashes . . . probably the
Don_nell_ boy; and if resemblance went for anything, his sister was
sitting across the aisle with Mary Bell. Anne wondered what sort of
mother the child had, to send her to school dressed as she was. She
wore a faded pink silk dress, trimmed with a great deal of cotton lace,
soiled white kid slippers, and silk stockings. Her sandy hair was
tortured into innumerable kinky and unnatural curls, surmounted by a
flamboyant bow of pink ribbon bigger than her head. Judging from her
expression she was very well satisfied with herself.