A pale little thing, with smooth ripples of fine, silky, fawn-colored
hair flowing over her shoulders, must, Anne thought, be Annetta Bell,
whose parents had formerly lived in the Newbridge school district, but,
by reason of hauling their house fifty yards north of its old site were
now in Avonlea. Three pallid little girls crowded into one seat were
certainly Cottons; and there was no doubt that the small beauty with
the long brown curls and hazel eyes, who was casting coquettish looks
at Jack Gills over the edge of her Testament, was Prillie Rogerson,
whose father had recently married a second wife and brought Prillie
home from her grandmother’s in Grafton. A tall, awkward girl in a back
seat, who seemed to have too many feet and hands, Anne could not place
at all, but later on discovered that her name was Barbara Shaw and that
she had come to live with an Avonlea aunt. She was also to find that if
Barbara ever managed to walk down the aisle without falling over her
own or somebody else’s feet the Avonlea scholars wrote the unusual fact
up on the porch wall to commemorate it.

But when Anne’s eyes met those of the boy at the front desk facing her
own, a queer little thrill went over her, as if she had found her
genius. She knew this must be Paul Irving and that Mrs. Rachel Lynde
had been right for once when she prophesied that he would be unlike the
Avonlea children. More than that, Anne realized that he was unlike
other children anywhere, and that there was a soul subtly akin to her
own gazing at her out of the very dark blue eyes that were watching her
so intently.

She knew Paul was ten but he looked no more than eight. He had the most
beautiful little face she had ever seen in a child . . . features of
exquisite delicacy and refinement, framed in a halo of chestnut curls.
His mouth was delicious, being full without pouting, the crimson lips
just softly touching and curving into finely finished little corners
that narrowly escaped being dimpled. He had a sober, grave, meditative
expression, as if his spirit was much older than his body; but when
Anne smiled softly at him it vanished in a sudden answering smile,
which seemed an illumination of his whole being, as if some lamp had
suddenly kindled into flame inside of him, irradiating him from top to
toe. Best of all, it was involuntary, born of no external effort or
motive, but simply the outflashing of a hidden personality, rare and
fine and sweet. With a quick interchange of smiles Anne and Paul were
fast friends forever before a word had passed between them.