“I might have expected that,” said Mrs. H. B. Don_nell_, in a tone
which implied that gratitude in children was not to be looked for in
this degenerate age. “That boy has such plebeian tastes, Miss Shirley.
When he was born I wanted to call him St. Clair . . . it sounds _so_
aristocratic, doesn’t it? But his father insisted he should be called
Jacob after his uncle. I yielded, because Uncle Jacob was a rich old
bachelor. And what do you think, Miss Shirley? When our innocent boy
was five years old Uncle Jacob actually went and got married and now he
has three boys of his own. Did you ever hear of such ingratitude? The
moment the invitation to the wedding . . . for he had the impertinence
to send us an invitation, Miss Shirley . . . came to the house I said,
‘No more Jacobs for me, thank you.’ From that day I called my son St.
Clair and St. Clair I am determined he shall be called. His father
obstinately continues to call him Jacob, and the boy himself has a
perfectly unaccountable preference for the vulgar name. But St. Clair
he is and St. Clair he shall remain. You will kindly remember this,
Miss Shirley, will you not? _Thank_ you. I told Clarice Almira that I
was sure it was only a misunderstanding and that a word would set it
right. Don_nell_. . . accent on the last syllable . . . and St. Clair .
. . on _no_ account Jacob. You’ll remember? _Thank_ you.”

When Mrs. H. B. Don_nell_ had skimmed away Anne locked the school door
and went home. At the foot of the hill she found Paul Irving by the
Birch Path. He held out to her a cluster of the dainty little wild
orchids which Avonlea children called “rice lillies.”

“Please, teacher, I found these in Mr. Wright’s field,” he said shyly,
“and I came back to give them to you because I thought you were the
kind of lady that would like them, and because . . .” he lifted his big
beautiful eyes . . . “I like you, teacher.”

“You darling,” said Anne, taking the fragrant spikes. As if Paul’s
words had been a spell of magic, discouragement and weariness passed
from her spirit, and hope upwelled in her heart like a dancing
fountain. She went through the Birch Path light-footedly, attended by
the sweetness of her orchids as by a benediction.

“Well, how did you get along?” Marilla wanted to know.