“Ask me that a month later and I may be able to tell you. I can’t now .
. . I don’t know myself . . . I’m too near it. My thoughts feel as if
they had been all stirred up until they were thick and muddy. The only
thing I feel really sure of having accomplished today is that I taught
Cliffie Wright that A is A. He never knew it before. Isn’t it something
to have started a soul along a path that may end in Shakespeare and
Paradise Lost?”

Mrs. Lynde came up later on with more encouragement. That good lady had
waylaid the schoolchildren at her gate and demanded of them how they
liked their new teacher.

“And every one of them said they liked you splendid, Anne, except
Anthony Pye. I must admit he didn’t. He said you ‘weren’t any good,
just like all girl teachers.’ There’s the Pye leaven for you. But never
mind.”

“I’m not going to mind,” said Anne quietly, “and I’m going to make
Anthony Pye like me yet. Patience and kindness will surely win him.”

“Well, you can never tell about a Pye,” said Mrs. Rachel cautiously.
“They go by contraries, like dreams, often as not. As for that
_Don_nell woman, she’ll get no Don_nell_ing from me, I can assure you.
The name is _Don_nell and always has been. The woman is crazy, that’s
what. She has a pug dog she calls Queenie and it has its meals at the
table along with the family, eating off a china plate. I’d be afraid of
a judgment if I was her. Thomas says Donnell himself is a sensible,
hard-working man, but he hadn’t much gumption when he picked out a
wife, that’s what.”

VI
All Sorts and Conditions of Men . . . and women

A September day on Prince Edward Island hills; a crisp wind blowing up
over the sand dunes from the sea; a long red road, winding through
fields and woods, now looping itself about a corner of thick set
spruces, now threading a plantation of young maples with great feathery
sheets of ferns beneath them, now dipping down into a hollow where a
brook flashed out of the woods and into them again, now basking in open
sunshine between ribbons of golden-rod and smoke-blue asters; air
athrill with the pipings of myriads of crickets, those glad little
pensioners of the summer hills; a plump brown pony ambling along the
road; two girls behind him, full to the lips with the simple, priceless
joy of youth and life.