There was some disapproval, of course, and . . . which the Improvers
felt much more keenly . . . a good deal of ridicule. Mr. Elisha Wright
was reported to have said that a more appropriate name for the
organization would be Courting Club. Mrs. Hiram Sloane declared she had
heard the Improvers meant to plough up all the roadsides and set them
out with geraniums. Mr. Levi Boulter warned his neighbors that the
Improvers would insist that everybody pull down his house and rebuild
it after plans approved by the society. Mr. James Spencer sent them
word that he wished they would kindly shovel down the church hill. Eben
Wright told Anne that he wished the Improvers could induce old Josiah
Sloane to keep his whiskers trimmed. Mr. Lawrence Bell said he would
whitewash his barns if nothing else would please them but he would
_not_ hang lace curtains in the cowstable windows. Mr. Major Spencer
asked Clifton Sloane, an Improver who drove the milk to the Carmody
cheese factory, if it was true that everybody would have to have his
milk-stand hand-painted next summer and keep an embroidered centerpiece
on it.

In spite of . . . or perhaps, human nature being what it is, because of
. . . this, the Society went gamely to work at the only improvement
they could hope to bring about that fall. At the second meeting, in the
Barry parlor, Oliver Sloane moved that they start a subscription to
re-shingle and paint the hall; Julia Bell seconded it, with an uneasy
feeling that she was doing something not exactly ladylike. Gilbert put
the motion, it was carried unanimously, and Anne gravely recorded it in
her minutes. The next thing was to appoint a committee, and Gertie Pye,
determined not to let Julia Bell carry off all the laurels, boldly
moved that Miss Jane Andrews be chairman of said committee. This motion
being also duly seconded and carried, Jane returned the compliment by
appointing Gertie on the committee, along with Gilbert, Anne, Diana,
and Fred Wright. The committee chose their routes in private conclave.
Anne and Diana were told off for the Newbridge road, Gilbert and Fred
for the White Sands road, and Jane and Gertie for the Carmody road.

“Because,” explained Gilbert to Anne, as they walked home together
through the Haunted Wood, “the Pyes all live along that road and they
won’t give a cent unless one of themselves canvasses them.”

The next Saturday Anne and Diana started out. They drove to the end of
the road and canvassed homeward, calling first on the “Andrew girls.”

“If Catherine is alone we may get something,” said Diana, “but if Eliza
is there we won’t.”