Eliza was there . . . very much so . . . and looked even grimmer than
usual. Miss Eliza was one of those people who give you the impression
that life is indeed a vale of tears, and that a smile, never to speak
of a laugh, is a waste of nervous energy truly reprehensible. The
Andrew girls had been “girls” for fifty odd years and seemed likely to
remain girls to the end of their earthly pilgrimage. Catherine, it was
said, had not entirely given up hope, but Eliza, who was born a
pessimist, had never had any. They lived in a little brown house built
in a sunny corner scooped out of Mark Andrew’s beech woods. Eliza
complained that it was terrible hot in summer, but Catherine was wont
to say it was lovely and warm in winter.

Eliza was sewing patchwork, not because it was needed but simply as a
protest against the frivolous lace Catherine was crocheting. Eliza
listened with a frown and Catherine with a smile, as the girls
explained their errand. To be sure, whenever Catherine caught Eliza’s
eye she discarded the smile in guilty confusion; but it crept back the
next moment.

“If I had money to waste,” said Eliza grimly, “I’d burn it up and have
the fun of seeing a blaze maybe; but I wouldn’t give it to that hall,
not a cent. It’s no benefit to the settlement . . . just a place for
young folks to meet and carry on when they’s better be home in their
beds.”

“Oh, Eliza, young folks must have some amusement,” protested Catherine.

“I don’t see the necessity. _We_ didn’t gad about to halls and places
when we were young, Catherine Andrews. This world is getting worse
every day.”

“I think it’s getting better,” said Catherine firmly.

“_You_ think!” Miss Eliza’s voice expressed the utmost contempt. “It
doesn’t signify what you _think_, Catherine Andrews. Facts is facts.”

“Well, I always like to look on the bright side, Eliza.”

“There isn’t any bright side.”

“Oh, indeed there is,” cried Anne, who couldn’t endure such heresy in
silence. “Why, there are ever so many bright sides, Miss Andrews. It’s
really a beautiful world.”

“You won’t have such a high opinion of it when you’ve lived as long in
it as I have,” retorted Miss Eliza sourly, “and you won’t be so
enthusiastic about improving it either. How is your mother, Diana? Dear
me, but she has failed of late. She looks terrible run down. And how
long is it before Marilla expects to be stone blind, Anne?”

“The doctor thinks her eyes will not get any worse if she is very
careful,” faltered Anne.

Eliza shook her head.

“Doctors always talk like that just to keep people cheered up. I
wouldn’t have much hope if I was her. It’s best to be prepared for the
worst.”

“But oughtn’t we be prepared for the best too?” pleaded Anne. “It’s
just as likely to happen as the worst.”