“I felt sorrier than ever for the poor man. He didn’t seem to be in his
proper sphere at all. I had heard of henpecked husbands and now I felt
that I saw one. It was on my lips to say, ‘Mr. Blair, if you’ll give us
a subscription for the hall I’ll mix up your cake for you.’ But I
suddenly thought it wouldn’t be neighborly to drive too sharp a bargain
with a fellow creature in distress. So I offered to mix the cake for
him without any conditions at all. He just jumped at my offer. He said
he’d been used to making his own bread before he was married but he
feared cake was beyond him, and yet he hated to disappoint his wife. He
got me another apron, and Diana beat the eggs and I mixed the cake. Mr.
Blair ran about and got us the materials. He had forgotten all about
his apron and when he ran it streamed out behind him and Diana said she
thought she would die to see it. He said he could bake the cake all
right . . . he was used to that . . . and then he asked for our list
and he put down four dollars. So you see we were rewarded. But even if
he hadn’t given a cent I’d always feel that we had done a truly
Christian act in helping him.”

Theodore White’s was the next stopping place. Neither Anne nor Diana
had ever been there before, and they had only a very slight
acquaintance with Mrs. Theodore, who was not given to hospitality.
Should they go to the back or front door? While they held a whispered
consultation Mrs. Theodore appeared at the front door with an armful of
newspapers. Deliberately she laid them down one by one on the porch
floor and the porch steps, and then down the path to the very feet of
her mystified callers.

“Will you please wipe your feet carefully on the grass and then walk on
these papers?” she said anxiously. “I’ve just swept the house all over
and I can’t have any more dust tracked in. The path’s been real muddy
since the rain yesterday.”

“Don’t you dare laugh,” warned Anne in a whisper, as they marched along
the newspapers. “And I implore you, Diana, not to look at me, no matter
what she says, or I shall not be able to keep a sober face.”