The papers extended across the hall and into a prim, fleckless parlor.
Anne and Diana sat down gingerly on the nearest chairs and explained
their errand. Mrs. White heard them politely, interrupting only twice,
once to chase out an adventurous fly, and once to pick up a tiny wisp
of grass that had fallen on the carpet from Anne’s dress. Anne felt
wretchedly guilty; but Mrs. White subscribed two dollars and paid the
money down . . . “to prevent us from having to go back for it,” Diana
said when they got away. Mrs. White had the newspapers gathered up
before they had their horse untied and as they drove out of the yard
they saw her busily wielding a broom in the hall.

“I’ve always heard that Mrs. Theodore White was the neatest woman alive
and I’ll believe it after this,” said Diana, giving way to her
suppressed laughter as soon as it was safe.

“I am glad she has no children,” said Anne solemnly. “It would be
dreadful beyond words for them if she had.”

At the Spencers’ Mrs. Isabella Spencer made them miserable by saying
something ill-natured about everyone in Avonlea. Mr. Thomas Boulter
refused to give anything because the hall, when it had been built,
twenty years before, hadn’t been built on the site he recommended. Mrs.
Esther Bell, who was the picture of health, took half an hour to detail
all her aches and pains, and sadly put down fifty cents because she
wouldn’t be there that time next year to do it . . . no, she would be
in her grave.

Their worst reception, however, was at Simon Fletcher’s. When they
drove into the yard they saw two faces peering at them through the
porch window. But although they rapped and waited patiently and
persistently nobody came to the door. Two decidedly ruffled and
indignant girls drove away from Simon Fletcher’s. Even Anne admitted
that she was beginning to feel discouraged. But the tide turned after
that. Several Sloane homesteads came next, where they got liberal
subscriptions, and from that to the end they fared well, with only an
occasional snub. Their last place of call was at Robert Dickson’s by
the pond bridge. They stayed to tea here, although they were nearly
home, rather than risk offending Mrs. Dickson, who had the reputation
of being a very “touchy” woman.

While they were there old Mrs. James White called in.

“I’ve just been down to Lorenzo’s,” she announced. “He’s the proudest
man in Avonlea this minute. What do you think? There’s a brand new boy
there . . . and after seven girls that’s quite an event, I can tell
you.” Anne pricked up her ears, and when they drove away she said.

“I’m going straight to Lorenzo White’s.”

“But he lives on the White Sands road and it’s quite a distance out of
our way,” protested Diana. “Gilbert and Fred will canvass him.”