“They are not going around until next Saturday and it will be too late
by then,” said Anne firmly. “The novelty will be worn off. Lorenzo
White is dreadfully mean but he will subscribe to _anything_ just now.
We mustn’t let such a golden opportunity slip, Diana.” The result
justified Anne’s foresight. Mr. White met them in the yard, beaming
like the sun upon an Easter day. When Anne asked for a subscription he
agreed enthusiastically.

“Certain, certain. Just put me down for a dollar more than the highest
subscription you’ve got.”

“That will be five dollars . . . Mr. Daniel Blair put down four,” said
Anne, half afraid. But Lorenzo did not flinch.

“Five it is . . . and here’s the money on the spot. Now, I want you to
come into the house. There’s something in there worth seeing . . .
something very few people have seen as yet. Just come in and pass
_your_ opinion.”

“What will we say if the baby isn’t pretty?” whispered Diana in
trepidation as they followed the excited Lorenzo into the house.

“Oh, there will certainly be something else nice to say about it,” said
Anne easily. “There always is about a baby.”

The baby _was_ pretty, however, and Mr. White felt that he got his five
dollars’ worth of the girls’ honest delight over the plump little
newcomer. But that was the first, last, and only time that Lorenzo
White ever subscribed to anything.

Anne, tired as she was, made one more effort for the public weal that
night, slipping over the fields to interview Mr. Harrison, who was as
usual smoking his pipe on the veranda with Ginger beside him. Strickly
speaking he was on the Carmody road; but Jane and Gertie, who were not
acquainted with him save by doubtful report, had nervously begged Anne
to canvass him.

Mr. Harrison, however, flatly refused to subscribe a cent, and all
Anne’s wiles were in vain.

“But I thought you approved of our society, Mr. Harrison,” she mourned.

“So I do . . . so I do . . . but my approval doesn’t go as deep as my
pocket, Anne.”

“A few more experiences such as I have had today would make me as much
of a pessimist as Miss Eliza Andrews,” Anne told her reflection in the
east gable mirror at bedtime.

VII
The Pointing of Duty

Anne leaned back in her chair one mild October evening and sighed. She
was sitting at a table covered with text books and exercises, but the
closely written sheets of paper before her had no apparent connection
with studies or school work.

“What is the matter?” asked Gilbert, who had arrived at the open
kitchen door just in time to hear the sigh.

Anne colored, and thrust her writing out of sight under some school
compositions.