“Nothing very dreadful. I was just trying to write out some of my
thoughts, as Professor Hamilton advised me, but I couldn’t get them to
please me. They seem so still and foolish directly they’re written down
on white paper with black ink. Fancies are like shadows . . . you can’t
cage them, they’re such wayward, dancing things. But perhaps I’ll learn
the secret some day if I keep on trying. I haven’t a great many spare
moments, you know. By the time I finish correcting school exercises and
compositions, I don’t always feel like writing any of my own.”

“You are getting on splendidly in school, Anne. All the children like
you,” said Gilbert, sitting down on the stone step.

“No, not all. Anthony Pye doesn’t and _won’t_ like me. What is worse,
he doesn’t respect me . . . no, he doesn’t. He simply holds me in
contempt and I don’t mind confessing to you that it worries me
miserably. It isn’t that he is so very bad . . . he is only rather
mischievous, but no worse than some of the others. He seldom disobeys
me; but he obeys with a scornful air of toleration as if it wasn’t
worthwhile disputing the point or he would . . . and it has a bad
effect on the others. I’ve tried every way to win him but I’m beginning
to fear I never shall. I want to, for he’s rather a cute little lad, if
he _is_ a Pye, and I could like him if he’d let me.”

“Probably it’s merely the effect of what he hears at home.”

“Not altogether. Anthony is an independent little chap and makes up his
own mind about things. He has always gone to men before and he says
girl teachers are no good. Well, we’ll see what patience and kindness
will do. I like overcoming difficulties and teaching is really very
interesting work. Paul Irving makes up for all that is lacking in the
others. That child is a perfect darling, Gilbert, and a genius into the
bargain. I’m persuaded the world will hear of him some day,” concluded
Anne in a tone of conviction.

“I like teaching, too,” said Gilbert. “It’s good training, for one
thing. Why, Anne, I’ve learned more in the weeks I’ve been teaching the
young ideas of White Sands than I learned in all the years I went to
school myself. We all seem to be getting on pretty well. The Newbridge
people like Jane, I hear; and I think White Sands is tolerably
satisfied with your humble servant . . . all except Mr. Andrew Spencer.
I met Mrs. Peter Blewett on my way home last night and she told me she
thought it her duty to inform me that Mr. Spencer didn’t approve of my
methods.”