“Have you ever noticed,” asked Anne reflectively, “that when people say
it is their duty to tell you a certain thing you may prepare for
something disagreeable? Why is it that they never seem to think it a
duty to tell you the pleasant things they hear about you? Mrs. H. B.
Don_nell_ called at the school again yesterday and told me she thought
it _her_ duty to inform me that Mrs. Harmon Andrews didn’t approve of
my reading fairy tales to the children, and that Mr. Rogerson thought
Prillie wasn’t coming on fast enough in arithmetic. If Prillie would
spend less time making eyes at the boys over her slate she might do
better. I feel quite sure that Jack Gillis works her class sums for
her, though I’ve never been able to catch him red-handed.”

“Have you succeeded in reconciling Mrs. Don_nell’s_ hopeful son to his
saintly name?”

“Yes,” laughed Anne, “but it was really a difficult task. At first,
when I called him ‘St. Clair’ he would not take the least notice until
I’d spoken two or three times; and then, when the other boys nudged
him, he would look up with such an aggrieved air, as if I’d called him
John or Charlie and he couldn’t be expected to know I meant him. So I
kept him in after school one night and talked kindly to him. I told him
his mother wished me to call him St. Clair and I couldn’t go against
her wishes. He saw it when it was all explained out . . . he’s really a
very reasonable little fellow . . . and he said _I_ could call him St.
Clair but that he’d ‘lick the stuffing’ out of any of the boys that
tried it. Of course, I had to rebuke him again for using such shocking
language. Since then _I_ call him St. Clair and the boys call him Jake
and all goes smoothly. He informs me that he means to be a carpenter,
but Mrs. Don_nell_ says I am to make a college professor out of him.”

The mention of college gave a new direction to Gilbert’s thoughts, and
they talked for a time of their plans and wishes . . . gravely,
earnestly, hopefully, as youth loves to talk, while the future is yet
an untrodden path full of wonderful possibilities.

Gilbert had finally made up his mind that he was going to be a doctor.