“It’s a splendid profession,” he said enthusiastically. “A fellow has
to fight something all through life . . . didn’t somebody once define
man as a fighting animal? . . . and I want to fight disease and pain
and ignorance . . . which are all members one of another. I want to do
my share of honest, real work in the world, Anne . . . add a little to
the sum of human knowledge that all the good men have been accumulating
since it began. The folks who lived before me have done so much for me
that I want to show my gratitude by doing something for the folks who
will live after me. It seems to me that is the only way a fellow can
get square with his obligations to the race.”

“I’d like to add some beauty to life,” said Anne dreamily. “I don’t
exactly want to make people _know_ more . . . though I know that _is_
the noblest ambition . . . but I’d love to make them have a pleasanter
time because of me . . . to have some little joy or happy thought that
would never have existed if I hadn’t been born.”

“I think you’re fulfilling that ambition every day,” said Gilbert
admiringly.

And he was right. Anne was one of the children of light by birthright.
After she had passed through a life with a smile or a word thrown
across it like a gleam of sunshine the owner of that life saw it, for
the time being at least, as hopeful and lovely and of good report.

Finally Gilbert rose regretfully.

“Well, I must run up to MacPhersons’. Moody Spurgeon came home from
Queen’s today for Sunday and he was to bring me out a book Professor
Boyd is lending me.”

“And I must get Marilla’s tea. She went to see Mrs. Keith this evening
and she will soon be back.”

Anne had tea ready when Marilla came home; the fire was crackling
cheerily, a vase of frost-bleached ferns and ruby-red maple leaves
adorned the table, and delectable odors of ham and toast pervaded the
air. But Marilla sank into her chair with a deep sigh.

“Are your eyes troubling you? Does your head ache?” queried Anne
anxiously.

“No. I’m only tired . . . and worried. It’s about Mary and those
children . . . Mary is worse . . . she can’t last much longer. And as
for the twins, _I_ don’t know what is to become of them.”

“Hasn’t their uncle been heard from?”