“Yes, Mary had a letter from him. He’s working in a lumber camp and
‘shacking it,’ whatever that means. Anyway, he says he can’t possibly
take the children till the spring. He expects to be married then and
will have a home to take them to; but he says she must get some of the
neighbors to keep them for the winter. She says she can’t bear to ask
any of them. Mary never got on any too well with the East Grafton
people and that’s a fact. And the long and short of it is, Anne, that
I’m sure Mary wants me to take those children . . . she didn’t say so
but she _looked_ it.”

“Oh!” Anne clasped her hands, all athrill with excitement. “And of
course you will, Marilla, won’t you?”

“I haven’t made up my mind,” said Marilla rather tartly. “I don’t rush
into things in your headlong way, Anne. Third cousinship is a pretty
slim claim. And it will be a fearful responsibility to have two
children of six years to look after . . . twins, at that.”

Marilla had an idea that twins were just twice as bad as single
children.

“Twins are very interesting . . . at least one pair of them,” said
Anne. “It’s only when there are two or three pairs that it gets
monotonous. And I think it would be real nice for you to have something
to amuse you when I’m away in school.”

“I don’t reckon there’d be much amusement in it . . . more worry and
bother than anything else, I should say. It wouldn’t be so risky if
they were even as old as you were when I took you. I wouldn’t mind Dora
so much . . . she seems good and quiet. But that Davy is a limb.”

Anne was fond of children and her heart yearned over the Keith twins.
The remembrance of her own neglected childhood was very vivid with her
still. She knew that Marilla’s only vulnerable point was her stern
devotion to what she believed to be her duty, and Anne skillfully
marshalled her arguments along this line.

“If Davy is naughty it’s all the more reason why he should have good
training, isn’t it, Marilla? If we don’t take them we don’t know who
will, nor what kind of influences may surround them. Suppose Mrs.
Keith’s next door neighbors, the Sprotts, were to take them. Mrs. Lynde
says Henry Sprott is the most profane man that ever lived and you can’t
believe a word his children say. Wouldn’t it be dreadful to have the
twins learn anything like that? Or suppose they went to the Wiggins’.
Mrs. Lynde says that Mr. Wiggins sells everything off the place that
can be sold and brings his family up on skim milk. You wouldn’t like
your relations to be starved, even if they were only third cousins,
would you? It seems to me, Marilla, that it is our duty to take them.”