“I suppose it is,” assented Marilla gloomily. “I daresay I’ll tell Mary
I’ll take them. You needn’t look so delighted, Anne. It will mean a
good deal of extra work for you. I can’t sew a stitch on account of my
eyes, so you’ll have to see to the making and mending of their clothes.
And you don’t like sewing.”

“I hate it,” said Anne calmly, “but if you are willing to take those
children from a sense of duty surely I can do their sewing from a sense
of duty. It does people good to have to do things they don’t like . . .
in moderation.”

VIII
Marilla Adopts Twins

Mrs. Rachel Lynde was sitting at her kitchen window, knitting a quilt,
just as she had been sitting one evening several years previously when
Matthew Cuthbert had driven down over the hill with what Mrs. Rachel
called “his imported orphan.” But that had been in springtime; and this
was late autumn, and all the woods were leafless and the fields sere
and brown. The sun was just setting with a great deal of purple and
golden pomp behind the dark woods west of Avonlea when a buggy drawn by
a comfortable brown nag came down the hill. Mrs. Rachel peered at it
eagerly.

“There’s Marilla getting home from the funeral,” she said to her
husband, who was lying on the kitchen lounge. Thomas Lynde lay more on
the lounge nowadays than he had been used to do, but Mrs. Rachel, who
was so sharp at noticing anything beyond her own household, had not as
yet noticed this. “And she’s got the twins with her, . . . yes, there’s
Davy leaning over the dashboard grabbing at the pony’s tail and Marilla
jerking him back. Dora’s sitting up on the seat as prim as you please.
She always looks as if she’d just been starched and ironed. Well, poor
Marilla is going to have her hands full this winter and no mistake.
Still, I don’t see that she could do anything less than take them,
under the circumstances, and she’ll have Anne to help her. Anne’s
tickled to death over the whole business, and she has a real knacky way
with children, I must say. Dear me, it doesn’t seem a day since poor
Matthew brought Anne herself home and everybody laughed at the idea of
Marilla bringing up a child. And now she has adopted twins. You’re
never safe from being surprised till you’re dead.”