The fat pony jogged over the bridge in Lynde’s Hollow and along the
Green Gables lane. Marilla’s face was rather grim. It was ten miles
from East Grafton and Davy Keith seemed to be possessed with a passion
for perpetual motion. It was beyond Marilla’s power to make him sit
still and she had been in an agony the whole way lest he fall over the
back of the wagon and break his neck, or tumble over the dashboard
under the pony’s heels. In despair she finally threatened to whip him
soundly when she got him home. Whereupon Davy climbed into her lap,
regardless of the reins, flung his chubby arms about her neck and gave
her a bear-like hug.

“I don’t believe you mean it,” he said, smacking her wrinkled cheek
affectionately. “You don’t _look_ like a lady who’d whip a little boy
just ’cause he couldn’t keep still. Didn’t you find it awful hard to
keep still when you was only ‘s old as me?”

“No, I always kept still when I was told,” said Marilla, trying to
speak sternly, albeit she felt her heart waxing soft within her under
Davy’s impulsive caresses.

“Well, I s’pose that was ’cause you was a girl,” said Davy, squirming
back to his place after another hug. “You _was_ a girl once, I s’pose,
though it’s awful funny to think of it. Dora can sit still . . . but
there ain’t much fun in it _I_ don’t think. Seems to me it must be slow
to be a girl. Here, Dora, let me liven you up a bit.”

Davy’s method of “livening up” was to grasp Dora’s curls in his fingers
and give them a tug. Dora shrieked and then cried.

“How can you be such a naughty boy and your poor mother just laid in
her grave this very day?” demanded Marilla despairingly.

“But she was glad to die,” said Davy confidentially. “I know, ’cause
she told me so. She was awful tired of being sick. We’d a long talk the
night before she died. She told me you was going to take me and Dora
for the winter and I was to be a good boy. I’m going to be good, but
can’t you be good running round just as well as sitting still? And she
said I was always to be kind to Dora and stand up for her, and I’m
going to.”

“Do you call pulling her hair being kind to her?”