“Well, I ain’t going to let anybody else pull it,” said Davy, doubling
up his fists and frowning. “They’d just better try it. I didn’t hurt
her much . . . she just cried ’cause she’s a girl. I’m glad I’m a boy
but I’m sorry I’m a twin. When Jimmy Sprott’s sister conterdicks him he
just says, ‘I’m oldern you, so of course I know better,’ and that
settles _her_. But I can’t tell Dora that, and she just goes on
thinking diffrunt from me. You might let me drive the gee-gee for a
spell, since I’m a man.”

Altogether, Marilla was a thankful woman when she drove into her own
yard, where the wind of the autumn night was dancing with the brown
leaves. Anne was at the gate to meet them and lift the twins out. Dora
submitted calmly to be kissed, but Davy responded to Anne’s welcome
with one of his hearty hugs and the cheerful announcement, “I’m Mr.
Davy Keith.”

At the supper table Dora behaved like a little lady, but Davy’s manners
left much to be desired.

“I’m so hungry I ain’t got time to eat p’litely,” he said when Marilla
reproved him. “Dora ain’t half as hungry as I am. Look at all the
ex’cise I took on the road here. That cake’s awful nice and plummy. We
haven’t had any cake at home for ever’n ever so long, ’cause mother was
too sick to make it and Mrs. Sprott said it was as much as she could do
to bake our bread for us. And Mrs. Wiggins never puts any plums in
_her_ cakes. Catch her! Can I have another piece?”

Marilla would have refused but Anne cut a generous second slice.
However, she reminded Davy that he ought to say “Thank you” for it.
Davy merely grinned at her and took a huge bite. When he had finished
the slice he said,

“If you’ll give me _another_ piece I’ll say thank you for _it_.”

“No, you have had plenty of cake,” said Marilla in a tone which Anne
knew and Davy was to learn to be final.

Davy winked at Anne, and then, leaning over the table, snatched Dora’s
first piece of cake, from which she had just taken one dainty little
bite, out of her very fingers and, opening his mouth to the fullest
extent, crammed the whole slice in. Dora’s lip trembled and Marilla was
speechless with horror. Anne promptly exclaimed, with her best
“schoolma’am” air,

“Oh, Davy, gentlemen don’t do things like that.”

“I know they don’t,” said Davy, as soon as he could speak, “but I ain’t
a gemplum.”

“But don’t you want to be?” said shocked Anne.

“Course I do. But you can’t be a gemplum till you grow up.”