“Oh, indeed you can,” Anne hastened to say, thinking she saw a chance
to sow good seed betimes. “You can begin to be a gentleman when you are
a little boy. And gentlemen _never_ snatch things from ladies . . . or
forget to say thank you . . . or pull anybody’s hair.”

“They don’t have much fun, that’s a fact,” said Davy frankly. “I guess
I’ll wait till I’m grown up to be one.”

Marilla, with a resigned air, had cut another piece of cake for Dora.
She did not feel able to cope with Davy just then. It had been a hard
day for her, what with the funeral and the long drive. At that moment
she looked forward to the future with a pessimism that would have done
credit to Eliza Andrews herself.

The twins were not noticeably alike, although both were fair. Dora had
long sleek curls that never got out of order. Davy had a crop of fuzzy
little yellow ringlets all over his round head. Dora’s hazel eyes were
gentle and mild; Davy’s were as roguish and dancing as an elf’s. Dora’s
nose was straight, Davy’s a positive snub; Dora had a “prunes and
prisms” mouth, Davy’s was all smiles; and besides, he had a dimple in
one cheek and none in the other, which gave him a dear, comical,
lopsided look when he laughed. Mirth and mischief lurked in every
corner of his little face.

“They’d better go to bed,” said Marilla, who thought it was the easiest
way to dispose of them. “Dora will sleep with me and you can put Davy
in the west gable. You’re not afraid to sleep alone, are you, Davy?”

“No; but I ain’t going to bed for ever so long yet,” said Davy
comfortably.

“Oh, yes, you are.” That was all the much-tried Marilla said, but
something in her tone squelched even Davy. He trotted obediently
upstairs with Anne.

“When I’m grown up the very first thing I’m going to do is stay up
_all_ night just to see what it would be like,” he told her
confidentially.

In after years Marilla never thought of that first week of the twins’
sojourn at Green Gables without a shiver. Not that it really was so
much worse than the weeks that followed it; but it seemed so by reason
of its novelty. There was seldom a waking minute of any day when Davy
was not in mischief or devising it; but his first notable exploit
occurred two days after his arrival, on Sunday morning . . . a fine,
warm day, as hazy and mild as September. Anne dressed him for church
while Marilla attended to Dora. Davy at first objected strongly to
having his face washed.

“Marilla washed it yesterday . . . and Mrs. Wiggins scoured me with
hard soap the day of the funeral. That’s enough for one week. I don’t
see the good of being so awful clean. It’s lots more comfable being
dirty.”