“I s’pose,” he said reflectively, “that Paul Irving wouldn’t have
dropped a caterpillar down a girl’s neck in church, would he?”

“Indeed he wouldn’t,” said Anne sadly.

“Well, I’m kind of sorry I did it, then,” conceded Davy. “But it was
such a jolly big caterpillar . . . I picked him up on the church steps
just as we went in. It seemed a pity to waste him. And say, wasn’t it
fun to hear that girl yell?”

Tuesday afternoon the Aid Society met at Green Gables. Anne hurried
home from school, for she knew that Marilla would need all the
assistance she could give. Dora, neat and proper, in her nicely
starched white dress and black sash, was sitting with the members of
the Aid in the parlor, speaking demurely when spoken to, keeping
silence when not, and in every way comporting herself as a model child.
Davy, blissfully dirty, was making mud pies in the barnyard.

“I told him he might,” said Marilla wearily. “I thought it would keep
him out of worse mischief. He can only get dirty at that. We’ll have
our teas over before we call him to his. Dora can have hers with us,
but I would never dare to let Davy sit down at the table with all the
Aids here.”

When Anne went to call the Aids to tea she found that Dora was not in
the parlor. Mrs. Jasper Bell said Davy had come to the front door and
called her out. A hasty consultation with Marilla in the pantry
resulted in a decision to let both children have their teas together
later on.

Tea was half over when the dining room was invaded by a forlorn figure.
Marilla and Anne stared in dismay, the Aids in amazement. Could that be
Dora . . . that sobbing nondescript in a drenched, dripping dress and
hair from which the water was streaming on Marilla’s new coin-spot rug?

“Dora, what has happened to you?” cried Anne, with a guilty glance at
Mrs. Jasper Bell, whose family was said to be the only one in the world
in which accidents never occurred.

“Davy made me walk the pigpen fence,” wailed Dora. “I didn’t want to
but he called me a fraid-cat. And I fell off into the pigpen and my
dress got all dirty and the pig runned right over me. My dress was just
awful but Davy said if I’d stand under the pump he’d wash it clean, and
I did and he pumped water all over me but my dress ain’t a bit cleaner
and my pretty sash and shoes is all spoiled.”