Anne did the honors of the table alone for the rest of the meal while
Marilla went upstairs and redressed Dora in her old clothes. Davy was
caught and sent to bed without any supper. Anne went to his room at
twilight and talked to him seriously . . . a method in which she had
great faith, not altogether unjustified by results. She told him she
felt very badly over his conduct.

“I feel sorry now myself,” admitted Davy, “but the trouble is I never
feel sorry for doing things till after I’ve did them. Dora wouldn’t
help me make pies, cause she was afraid of messing her clo’es and that
made me hopping mad. I s’pose Paul Irving wouldn’t have made _his_
sister walk a pigpen fence if he knew she’d fall in?”

“No, he would never dream of such a thing. Paul is a perfect little
gentleman.”

Davy screwed his eyes tight shut and seemed to meditate on this for a
time. Then he crawled up and put his arms about Anne’s neck, snuggling
his flushed little face down on her shoulder.

“Anne, don’t you like me a little bit, even if I ain’t a good boy like
Paul?”

“Indeed I do,” said Anne sincerely. Somehow, it was impossible to help
liking Davy. “But I’d like you better still if you weren’t so naughty.”

“I . . . did something else today,” went on Davy in a muffled voice.
“I’m sorry now but I’m awful scared to tell you. You won’t be very
cross, will you? And you won’t tell Marilla, will you?”

“I don’t know, Davy. Perhaps I ought to tell her. But I think I can
promise you I won’t if you promise me that you will never do it again,
whatever it is.”

“No, I never will. Anyhow, it’s not likely I’d find any more of them
this year. I found this one on the cellar steps.”

“Davy, what is it you’ve done?”

“I put a toad in Marilla’s bed. You can go and take it out if you like.
But say, Anne, wouldn’t it be fun to leave it there?”

“Davy Keith!” Anne sprang from Davy’s clinging arms and flew across the
hall to Marilla’s room. The bed was slightly rumpled. She threw back
the blankets in nervous haste and there in very truth was the toad,
blinking at her from under a pillow.

“How can I carry that awful thing out?” moaned Anne with a shudder. The
fire shovel suggested itself to her and she crept down to get it while
Marilla was busy in the pantry. Anne had her own troubles carrying that
toad downstairs, for it hopped off the shovel three times and once she
thought she had lost it in the hall. When she finally deposited it in
the cherry orchard she drew a long breath of relief.