“If Marilla knew she’d never feel safe getting into bed again in her
life. I’m so glad that little sinner repented in time. There’s Diana
signaling to me from her window. I’m glad . . . I really feel the need
of some diversion, for what with Anthony Pye in school and Davy Keith
at home my nerves have had about all they can endure for one day.”

IX
A Question of Color

“That old nuisance of a Rachel Lynde was here again today, pestering me
for a subscription towards buying a carpet for the vestry room,” said
Mr. Harrison wrathfully. “I detest that woman more than anybody I know.
She can put a whole sermon, text, comment, and application, into six
words, and throw it at you like a brick.”

Anne, who was perched on the edge of the veranda, enjoying the charm of
a mild west wind blowing across a newly ploughed field on a gray
November twilight and piping a quaint little melody among the twisted
firs below the garden, turned her dreamy face over her shoulder.

“The trouble is, you and Mrs. Lynde don’t understand one another,” she
explained. “That is always what is wrong when people don’t like each
other. I didn’t like Mrs. Lynde at first either; but as soon as I came
to understand her I learned to.”

“Mrs. Lynde may be an acquired taste with some folks; but I didn’t keep
on eating bananas because I was told I’d learn to like them if I did,”
growled Mr. Harrison. “And as for understanding her, I understand that
she is a confirmed busybody and I told her so.”

“Oh, that must have hurt her feelings very much,” said Anne
reproachfully. “How could you say such a thing? _I_ said some dreadful
things to Mrs. Lynde long ago but it was when I had lost my temper. I
couldn’t say them _deliberately_.”

“It was the truth and I believe in telling the truth to everybody.”

“But you don’t tell the whole truth,” objected Anne. “You only tell the
disagreeable part of the truth. Now, you’ve told me a dozen times that
my hair was red, but you’ve never once told me that I had a nice nose.”

“I daresay you know it without any telling,” chuckled Mr. Harrison.

“I know I have red hair too . . . although it’s _much_ darker than it
used to be . . . so there’s no need of telling me that either.”

“Well, well, I’ll try and not mention it again since you’re so
sensitive. You must excuse me, Anne. I’ve got a habit of being
outspoken and folks mustn’t mind it.”