“But they can’t help minding it. And I don’t think it’s any help that
it’s your habit. What would you think of a person who went about
sticking pins and needles into people and saying, ‘Excuse me, you
mustn’t mind it . . . it’s just a habit I’ve got.’ You’d think he was
crazy, wouldn’t you? And as for Mrs. Lynde being a busybody, perhaps
she is. But did you tell her she had a very kind heart and always
helped the poor, and never said a word when Timothy Cotton stole a
crock of butter out of her dairy and told his wife he’d bought it from
her? Mrs. Cotton cast it up to her the next time they met that it
tasted of turnips and Mrs. Lynde just said she was sorry it had turned
out so poorly.”

“I suppose she has some good qualities,” conceded Mr. Harrison
grudgingly. “Most folks have. I have some myself, though you might
never suspect it. But anyhow I ain’t going to give anything to that
carpet. Folks are everlasting begging for money here, it seems to me.
How’s your project of painting the hall coming on?”

“Splendidly. We had a meeting of the A.V.I.S. last Friday night and
found that we had plenty of money subscribed to paint the hall and
shingle the roof too. _Most_ people gave very liberally, Mr. Harrison.”

Anne was a sweet-souled lass, but she could instill some venom into
innocent italics when occasion required.

“What color are you going to have it?”

“We have decided on a very pretty green. The roof will be dark red, of
course. Mr. Roger Pye is going to get the paint in town today.”

“Who’s got the job?”

“Mr. Joshua Pye of Carmody. He has nearly finished the shingling. We
had to give him the contract, for every one of the Pyes . . . and there
are four families, you know . . . said they wouldn’t give a cent unless
Joshua got it. They had subscribed twelve dollars between them and we
thought that was too much to lose, although some people think we
shouldn’t have given in to the Pyes. Mrs. Lynde says they try to run
everything.”

“The main question is will this Joshua do his work well. If he does I
don’t see that it matters whether his name is Pye or Pudding.”

“He has the reputation of being a good workman, though they say he’s a
very peculiar man. He hardly ever talks.”

“He’s peculiar enough all right then,” said Mr. Harrison drily. “Or at
least, folks here will call him so. I never was much of a talker till I
came to Avonlea and then I had to begin in self-defense or Mrs. Lynde
would have said I was dumb and started a subscription to have me taught
sign language. You’re not going yet, Anne?”