“I must. I have some sewing to do for Dora this evening. Besides, Davy
is probably breaking Marilla’s heart with some new mischief by this
time. This morning the first thing he said was, ‘Where does the dark
go, Anne? I want to know.’ I told him it went around to the other side
of the world but after breakfast he declared it didn’t . . . that it
went down the well. Marilla says she caught him hanging over the
well-box four times today, trying to reach down to the dark.”

“He’s a limb,” declared Mr. Harrison. “He came over here yesterday and
pulled six feathers out of Ginger’s tail before I could get in from the
barn. The poor bird has been moping ever since. Those children must be
a sight of trouble to you folks.”

“Everything that’s worth having is some trouble,” said Anne, secretly
resolving to forgive Davy’s next offence, whatever it might be, since
he had avenged her on Ginger.

Mr. Roger Pye brought the hall paint home that night and Mr. Joshua
Pye, a surly, taciturn man, began painting the next day. He was not
disturbed in his task. The hall was situated on what was called “the
lower road.” In late autumn this road was always muddy and wet, and
people going to Carmody traveled by the longer “upper” road. The hall
was so closely surrounded by fir woods that it was invisible unless you
were near it. Mr. Joshua Pye painted away in the solitude and
independence that were so dear to his unsociable heart.

Friday afternoon he finished his job and went home to Carmody. Soon
after his departure Mrs. Rachel Lynde drove by, having braved the mud
of the lower road out of curiosity to see what the hall looked like in
its new coat of paint. When she rounded the spruce curve she saw.

The sight affected Mrs. Lynde oddly. She dropped the reins, held up her
hands, and said “Gracious Providence!” She stared as if she could not
believe her eyes. Then she laughed almost hysterically.

“There must be some mistake . . . there _must_. I knew those Pyes would
make a mess of things.”

Mrs. Lynde drove home, meeting several people on the road and stopping
to tell them about the hall. The news flew like wildfire. Gilbert
Blythe, poring over a text book at home, heard it from his father’s
hired boy at sunset, and rushed breathlessly to Green Gables, joined on
the way by Fred Wright. They found Diana Barry, Jane Andrews, and Anne
Shirley, despair personified, at the yard gate of Green Gables, under
the big leafless willows.

“It isn’t true surely, Anne?” exclaimed Gilbert.

“It is true,” answered Anne, looking like the muse of tragedy. “Mrs.
Lynde called on her way from Carmody to tell me. Oh, it is simply
dreadful! _What_ is the use of trying to improve anything?”

“What is dreadful?” asked Oliver Sloane, arriving at this moment with a
bandbox he had brought from town for Marilla.