The luckless Improvers expected that Avonlea would be more prejudiced
than ever against them; but instead, public sympathy veered around in
their favor. People thought the eager, enthusiastic little band who had
worked so hard for their object had been badly used. Mrs. Lynde told
them to keep on and show the Pyes that there really were people in the
world who could do things without making a muddle of them. Mr. Major
Spencer sent them word that he would clean out all the stumps along the
road front of his farm and seed it down with grass at his own expense;
and Mrs. Hiram Sloane called at the school one day and beckoned Anne
mysteriously out into the porch to tell her that if the “Sassiety”
wanted to make a geranium bed at the crossroads in the spring they
needn’t be afraid of her cow, for she would see that the marauding
animal was kept within safe bounds. Even Mr. Harrison chuckled, if he
chuckled at all, in private, and was all sympathy outwardly.

“Never mind, Anne. Most paints fade uglier every year but that blue is
as ugly as it can be to begin with, so it’s bound to fade prettier. And
the roof is shingled and painted all right. Folks will be able to sit
in the hall after this without being leaked on. You’ve accomplished so
much anyhow.”

“But Avonlea’s blue hall will be a byword in all the neighboring
settlements from this time out,” said Anne bitterly.

And it must be confessed that it was.

X
Davy in Search of a Sensation

Anne, walking home from school through the Birch Path one November
afternoon, felt convinced afresh that life was a very wonderful thing.
The day had been a good day; all had gone well in her little kingdom.
St. Clair Donnell had _not_ fought any of the other boys over the
question of his name; Prillie Rogerson’s face had been so puffed up
from the effects of toothache that she did not once try to coquette
with the boys in her vicinity. Barbara Shaw had met with only _one_
accident . . . spilling a dipper of water over the floor . . . and
Anthony Pye had not been in school at all.