“What a nice month this November has been!” said Anne, who had never
quite got over her childish habit of talking to herself. “November is
usually such a disagreeable month . . . as if the year had suddenly
found out that she was growing old and could do nothing but weep and
fret over it. This year is growing old gracefully . . . just like a
stately old lady who knows she can be charming even with gray hair and
wrinkles. We’ve had lovely days and delicious twilights. This last
fortnight has been so peaceful, and even Davy has been almost
well-behaved. I really think he is improving a great deal. How quiet
the woods are today . . . not a murmur except that soft wind purring in
the treetops! It sounds like surf on a faraway shore. How dear the
woods are! You beautiful trees! I love every one of you as a friend.”

Anne paused to throw her arm about a slim young birch and kiss its
cream-white trunk. Diana, rounding a curve in the path, saw her and
laughed.

“Anne Shirley, you’re only pretending to be grown up. I believe when
you’re alone you’re as much a little girl as you ever were.”

“Well, one can’t get over the habit of being a little girl all at
once,” said Anne gaily. “You see, I was little for fourteen years and
I’ve only been grown-uppish for scarcely three. I’m sure I shall always
feel like a child in the woods. These walks home from school are almost
the only time I have for dreaming . . . except the half-hour or so
before I go to sleep. I’m so busy with teaching and studying and
helping Marilla with the twins that I haven’t another moment for
imagining things. You don’t know what splendid adventures I have for a
little while after I go to bed in the east gable every night. I always
imagine I’m something very brilliant and triumphant and splendid . . .
a great prima donna or a Red Cross nurse or a queen. Last night I was a
queen. It’s really splendid to imagine you are a queen. You have all
the fun of it without any of the inconveniences and you can stop being
a queen whenever you want to, which you couldn’t in real life. But here
in the woods I like best to imagine quite different things . . . I’m a
dryad living in an old pine, or a little brown wood-elf hiding under a
crinkled leaf. That white birch you caught me kissing is a sister of
mine. The only difference is, she’s a tree and I’m a girl, but that’s
no real difference. Where are you going, Diana?”

“Down to the Dicksons. I promised to help Alberta cut out her new
dress. Can’t you walk down in the evening, Anne, and come home with
me?”

“I might . . . since Fred Wright is away in town,” said Anne with a
rather too innocent face.