Marilla listened to Anne’s tale in a silence that boded no good
Davy-ward; Mr. Barry laughed and advised that Davy be summarily dealt
with. When he had gone home Anne soothed and warmed the sobbing,
shivering Dora, got her her supper and put her to bed. Then she
returned to the kitchen, just as Marilla came grimly in, leading, or
rather pulling, the reluctant, cobwebby Davy, whom she had just found
hidden away in the darkest corner of the stable.

She jerked him to the mat on the middle of the floor and then went and
sat down by the east window. Anne was sitting limply by the west
window. Between them stood the culprit. His back was toward Marilla and
it was a meek, subdued, frightened back; but his face was toward Anne
and although it was a little shamefaced there was a gleam of
comradeship in Davy’s eyes, as if he knew he had done wrong and was
going to be punished for it, but could count on a laugh over it all
with Anne later on.

But no half hidden smile answered him in Anne’s gray eyes, as there
might have done had it been only a question of mischief. There was
something else . . . something ugly and repulsive.

“How could you behave so, Davy?” she asked sorrowfully.

Davy squirmed uncomfortably.

“I just did it for fun. Things have been so awful quiet here for so
long that I thought it would be fun to give you folks a big scare. It
was, too.”

In spite of fear and a little remorse Davy grinned over the
recollection.

“But you told a falsehood about it, Davy,” said Anne, more sorrowfully
than ever.

Davy looked puzzled.

“What’s a falsehood? Do you mean a whopper?”

“I mean a story that was not true.”

“Course I did,” said Davy frankly. “If I hadn’t you wouldn’t have been
scared. I _had_ to tell it.”

Anne was feeling the reaction from her fright and exertions. Davy’s
impenitent attitude gave the finishing touch. Two big tears brimmed up
in her eyes.

“Oh, Davy, how could you?” she said, with a quiver in her voice. “Don’t
you know how wrong it was?”

Davy was aghast. Anne crying . . . he had made Anne cry! A flood of
real remorse rolled like a wave over his warm little heart and engulfed
it. He rushed to Anne, hurled himself into her lap, flung his arms
around her neck, and burst into tears.

“I didn’t know it was wrong to tell whoppers,” he sobbed. “How did you
expect me to know it was wrong? All Mr. Sprott’s children told them
_regular_ every day, and cross their hearts too. I s’pose Paul Irving
never tells whoppers and here I’ve been trying awful hard to be as good
as him, but now I s’pose you’ll never love me again. But I think you
might have told me it was wrong. I’m awful sorry I’ve made you cry,
Anne, and I’ll never tell a whopper again.”