Davy buried his face in Anne’s shoulder and cried stormily. Anne, in a
sudden glad flash of understanding, held him tight and looked over his
curly thatch at Marilla.

“He didn’t know it was wrong to tell falsehoods, Marilla. I think we
must forgive him for that part of it this time if he will promise never
to say what isn’t true again.”

“I never will, now that I know it’s bad,” asseverated Davy between
sobs. “If you ever catch me telling a whopper again you can . . .” Davy
groped mentally for a suitable penance . . . “you can skin me alive,
Anne.”

“Don’t say ‘whopper,’ Davy . . . say ‘falsehood,’” said the
schoolma’am.

“Why?” queried Davy, settling comfortably down and looking up with a
tearstained, investigating face. “Why ain’t whopper as good as
falsehood? I want to know. It’s just as big a word.”

“It’s slang; and it’s wrong for little boys to use slang.”

“There’s an awful lot of things it’s wrong to do,” said Davy with a
sigh. “I never s’posed there was so many. I’m sorry it’s wrong to tell
whop . . . falsehoods, ’cause it’s awful handy, but since it is I’m
never going to tell any more. What are you going to do to me for
telling them this time? I want to know.” Anne looked beseechingly at
Marilla.

“I don’t want to be too hard on the child,” said Marilla. “I daresay
nobody ever did tell him it was wrong to tell lies, and those Sprott
children were no fit companions for him. Poor Mary was too sick to
train him properly and I presume you couldn’t expect a six-year-old
child to know things like that by instinct. I suppose we’ll just have
to assume he doesn’t know _anything_ right and begin at the beginning.
But he’ll have to be punished for shutting Dora up, and I can’t think
of any way except to send him to bed without his supper and we’ve done
that so often. Can’t you suggest something else, Anne? I should think
you ought to be able to, with that imagination you’re always talking
of.”

“But punishments are so horrid and I like to imagine only pleasant
things,” said Anne, cuddling Davy. “There are so many unpleasant things
in the world already that there is no use in imagining any more.”

In the end Davy was sent to bed, as usual, there to remain until noon
next day. He evidently did some thinking, for when Anne went up to her
room a little later she heard him calling her name softly. Going in,
she found him sitting up in bed, with his elbows on his knees and his
chin propped on his hands.

“Anne,” he said solemnly, “is it wrong for everybody to tell whop . . .
falsehoods? I want to know?”

“Yes, indeed.”

“Is it wrong for a grown-up person?”

“Yes.”