“Yesterday I was trying to teach Lottie Wright to do addition. I said,
‘If you had three candies in one hand and two in the other, how many
would you have altogether?’ ‘A mouthful,’ said Lottie. And in the
nature study class, when I asked them to give me a good reason why
toads shouldn’t be killed, Benjie Sloane gravely answered, ‘Because it
would rain the next day.’

“It’s so hard not to laugh, Stella. I have to save up all my amusement
until I get home, and Marilla says it makes her nervous to hear wild
shrieks of mirth proceeding from the east gable without any apparent
cause. She says a man in Grafton went insane once and that was how it
began.

“Did you know that Thomas a Becket was canonized as a _snake?_ Rose
Bell says he was . . . also that William Tyndale _wrote_ the New
Testament. Claude White says a ‘glacier’ is a man who puts in window
frames!

“I think the most difficult thing in teaching, as well as the most
interesting, is to get the children to tell you their real thoughts
about things. One stormy day last week I gathered them around me at
dinner hour and tried to get them to talk to me just as if I were one
of themselves. I asked them to tell me the things they most wanted.
Some of the answers were commonplace enough . . . dolls, ponies, and
skates. Others were decidedly original. Hester Boulter wanted ‘to wear
her Sunday dress every day and eat in the sitting room.’ Hannah Bell
wanted ‘to be good without having to take any trouble about it.’
Marjory White, aged ten, wanted to be a _widow_. Questioned why, she
gravely said that if you weren’t married people called you an old maid,
and if you were your husband bossed you; but if you were a widow
there’d be no danger of either. The most remarkable wish was Sally
Bell’s. She wanted a ‘honeymoon.’ I asked her if she knew what it was
and she said she thought it was an extra nice kind of bicycle because
her cousin in Montreal went on a honeymoon when he was married and he
had always had the very latest in bicycles!