“Another day I asked them all to tell me the naughtiest thing they had
ever done. I couldn’t get the older ones to do so, but the third class
answered quite freely. Eliza Bell had ‘set fire to her aunt’s carded
rolls.’ Asked if she meant to do it she said, ‘not altogether.’ She
just tried a little end to see how it would burn and the whole bundle
blazed up in a jiffy. Emerson Gillis had spent ten cents for candy when
he should have put it in his missionary box. Annetta Bell’s worst crime
was ‘eating some blueberries that grew in the graveyard.’ Willie White
had ‘slid down the sheephouse roof a lot of times with his Sunday
trousers on.’ ‘But I was punished for it ’cause I had to wear patched
pants to Sunday School all summer, and when you’re punished for a thing
you don’t have to repent of it,’ declared Willie.

“I wish you could see some of their compositions . . . so much do I
wish it that I’ll send you copies of some written recently. Last week I
told the fourth class I wanted them to write me letters about anything
they pleased, adding by way of suggestion that they might tell me of
some place they had visited or some interesting thing or person they
had seen. They were to write the letters on real note paper, seal them
in an envelope, and address them to me, all without any assistance from
other people. Last Friday morning I found a pile of letters on my desk
and that evening I realized afresh that teaching has its pleasures as
well as its pains. Those compositions would atone for much. Here is Ned
Clay’s, address, spelling, and grammar as originally penned.

“‘Miss teacher ShiRley
Green gabels.
p.e. Island can
birds

“‘Dear teacher I think I will write you a composition about birds.
birds is very useful animals. my cat catches birds. His name is William
but pa calls him tom. he is oll striped and he got one of his ears froz
of last winter. only for that he would be a good-looking cat. My unkle
has adopted a cat. it come to his house one day and woudent go away and
unkle says it has forgot more than most people ever knowed. he lets it
sleep on his rocking chare and my aunt says he thinks more of it than
he does of his children. that is not right. we ought to be kind to cats
and give them new milk but we ought not be better to them than to our
children. this is oll I can think of so no more at present from

edward blake ClaY.’”

“St. Clair Donnell’s is, as usual, short and to the point. St. Clair
never wastes words. I do not think he chose his subject or added the
postscript out of malice aforethought. It is just that he has not a
great deal of tact or imagination.”

“‘Dear Miss Shirley