“‘You told us to describe something strange we have seen. I will
describe the Avonlea Hall. It has two doors, an inside one and an
outside one. It has six windows and a chimney. It has two ends and two
sides. It is painted blue. That is what makes it strange. It is built
on the lower Carmody road. It is the third most important building in
Avonlea. The others are the church and the blacksmith shop. They hold
debating clubs and lectures in it and concerts.

“‘Yours truly,
“‘Jacob Donnell.

“‘P.S. The hall is a very bright blue.’”

“Annetta Bell’s letter was quite long, which surprised me, for writing
essays is not Annetta’s forte, and hers are generally as brief as St.
Clair’s. Annetta is a quiet little puss and a model of good behavior,
but there isn’t a shadow of originality in her. Here is her letter.—

“‘Dearest teacher,

“‘I think I will write you a letter to tell you how much I love you. I
love you with my whole heart and soul and mind . . . with all there is
of me to love . . . and I want to serve you for ever. It would be my
highest privilege. That is why I try so hard to be good in school and
learn my lessuns.

“‘You are so beautiful, my teacher. Your voice is like music and your
eyes are like pansies when the dew is on them. You are like a tall
stately queen. Your hair is like rippling gold. Anthony Pye says it is
red, but you needn’t pay any attention to Anthony.

“‘I have only known you for a few months but I cannot realize that
there was ever a time when I did not know you . . . when you had not
come into my life to bless and hallow it. I will always look back to
this year as the most wonderful in my life because it brought you to
me. Besides, it’s the year we moved to Avonlea from Newbridge. My love
for you has made my life very rich and it has kept me from much of harm
and evil. I owe this all to you, my sweetest teacher.

“‘I shall never forget how sweet you looked the last time I saw you in
that black dress with flowers in your hair. I shall see you like that
for ever, even when we are both old and gray. You will always be young
and fair to me, dearest teacher. I am thinking of you all the time. . .
in the morning and at the noontide and at the twilight. I love you when
you laugh and when you sigh . . . even when you look disdainful. I
never saw you look cross though Anthony Pye says you always look so but
I don’t wonder you look cross at him for he deserves it. I love you in
every dress . . . you seem more adorable in each new dress than the
last.