A bolder and more self-possessed lad than Joe Sloane would have been
overawed by her tone and the dangerous flash of her eyes. This was a
new Anne whom none of her pupils had ever seen before. Joe, with an
agonized glance at St. Clair, went to the stove, opened the big, square
front door, and threw the blue and white parcel in, before St. Clair,
who had sprung to his feet, could utter a word. Then he dodged back
just in time.

For a few moments the terrified occupants of Avonlea school did not
know whether it was an earthquake or a volcanic explosion that had
occurred. The innocent looking parcel which Anne had rashly supposed to
contain Mrs. Hiram’s nut cakes really held an assortment of
firecrackers and pinwheels for which Warren Sloane had sent to town by
St. Clair Donnell’s father the day before, intending to have a birthday
celebration that evening. The crackers went off in a thunderclap of
noise and the pinwheels bursting out of the door spun madly around the
room, hissing and spluttering. Anne dropped into her chair white with
dismay and all the girls climbed shrieking upon their desks. Joe Sloane
stood as one transfixed in the midst of the commotion and St. Clair,
helpless with laughter, rocked to and fro in the aisle. Prillie
Rogerson fainted and Annetta Bell went into hysterics.

It seemed a long time, although it was really only a few minutes,
before the last pinwheel subsided. Anne, recovering herself, sprang to
open doors and windows and let out the gas and smoke which filled the
room. Then she helped the girls carry the unconscious Prillie into the
porch, where Barbara Shaw, in an agony of desire to be useful, poured a
pailful of half frozen water over Prillie’s face and shoulders before
anyone could stop her.

It was a full hour before quiet was restored . . . but it was a quiet
that might be felt. Everybody realized that even the explosion had not
cleared the teacher’s mental atmosphere. Nobody, except Anthony Pye,
dared whisper a word. Ned Clay accidentally squeaked his pencil while
working a sum, caught Anne’s eye and wished the floor would open and
swallow him up. The geography class were whisked through a continent
with a speed that made them dizzy. The grammar class were parsed and
analyzed within an inch of their lives. Chester Sloane, spelling
“odoriferous” with two f’s, was made to feel that he could never live
down the disgrace of it, either in this world or that which is to come.

Anne knew that she had made herself ridiculous and that the incident
would be laughed over that night at a score of tea-tables, but the
knowledge only angered her further. In a calmer mood she could have
carried off the situation with a laugh but now that was impossible; so
she ignored it in icy disdain.