“The trouble is, I’ve got things the matter with my conscience,” sobbed
Anne. “Oh, this has been such a Jonah day, Marilla. I’m so ashamed of
myself. I lost my temper and whipped Anthony Pye.”

“I’m glad to hear it,” said Marilla with decision. “It’s what you
should have done long ago.”

“Oh, no, no, Marilla. And I don’t see how I can ever look those
children in the face again. I feel that I have humiliated myself to the
very dust. You don’t know how cross and hateful and horrid I was. I
can’t forget the expression in Paul Irving’s eyes . . . he looked so
surprised and disappointed. Oh, Marilla, I _have_ tried so hard to be
patient and to win Anthony’s liking . . . and now it has all gone for
nothing.”

Marilla passed her hard work-worn hand over the girl’s glossy, tumbled
hair with a wonderful tenderness. When Anne’s sobs grew quieter she
said, very gently for her,

“You take things too much to heart, Anne. We all make mistakes . . .
but people forget them. And Jonah days come to everybody. As for
Anthony Pye, why need you care if he does dislike you? He is the only
one.”

“I can’t help it. I want everybody to love me and it hurts me so when
anybody doesn’t. And Anthony never will now. Oh, I just made an idiot
of myself today, Marilla. I’ll tell you the whole story.”

Marilla listened to the whole story, and if she smiled at certain parts
of it Anne never knew. When the tale was ended she said briskly,

“Well, never mind. This day’s done and there’s a new one coming
tomorrow, with no mistakes in it yet, as you used to say yourself. Just
come downstairs and have your supper. You’ll see if a good cup of tea
and those plum puffs I made today won’t hearten you up.”

“Plum puffs won’t minister to a mind diseased,” said Anne
disconsolately; but Marilla thought it a good sign that she had
recovered sufficiently to adapt a quotation.

The cheerful supper table, with the twins’ bright faces, and Marilla’s
matchless plum puffs . . . of which Davy ate four . . . did “hearten
her up” considerably after all. She had a good sleep that night and
awakened in the morning to find herself and the world transformed. It
had snowed softly and thickly all through the hours of darkness and the
beautiful whiteness, glittering in the frosty sunshine, looked like a
mantle of charity cast over all the mistakes and humiliations of the
past.

“Every morn is a fresh beginning,
Every morn is the world made new,”

sang Anne, as she dressed.