Owing to the snow she had to go around by the road to school and she
thought it was certainly an impish coincidence that Anthony Pye should
come ploughing along just as she left the Green Gables lane. She felt
as guilty as if their positions were reversed; but to her unspeakable
astonishment Anthony not only lifted his cap . . . which he had never
done before . . . but said easily,

“Kind of bad walking, ain’t it? Can I take those books for you,
teacher?”

Anne surrendered her books and wondered if she could possibly be awake.
Anthony walked on in silence to the school, but when Anne took her
books she smiled down at him . . . not the stereotyped “kind” smile she
had so persistently assumed for his benefit but a sudden outflashing of
good comradeship. Anthony smiled . . . no, if the truth must be told,
Anthony _grinned_ back. A grin is not generally supposed to be a
respectful thing; yet Anne suddenly felt that if she had not yet won
Anthony’s liking she had, somehow or other, won his respect.

Mrs. Rachel Lynde came up the next Saturday and confirmed this.

“Well, Anne, I guess you’ve won over Anthony Pye, that’s what. He says
he believes you are some good after all, even if you are a girl. Says
that whipping you gave him was ‘just as good as a man’s.’”

“I never expected to win him by whipping him, though,” said Anne, a
little mournfully, feeling that her ideals had played her false
somewhere. “It doesn’t seem right. I’m _sure_ my theory of kindness
_can’t_ be wrong.”

“No, but the Pyes are an exception to every known rule, that’s what,”
declared Mrs. Rachel with conviction.

Mr. Harrison said, “Thought you’d come to it,” when he heard it, and
Jane rubbed it in rather unmercifully.

XIII
A Golden Picnic

Anne, on her way to Orchard Slope, met Diana, bound for Green Gables,
just where the mossy old log bridge spanned the brook below the Haunted
Wood, and they sat down by the margin of the Dryad’s Bubble, where tiny
ferns were unrolling like curly-headed green pixy folk wakening up from
a nap.

“I was just on my way over to invite you to help me celebrate my
birthday on Saturday,” said Anne.

“Your birthday? But your birthday was in March!”