“That wasn’t my fault,” laughed Anne. “If my parents had consulted me
it would never have happened then. I should have chosen to be born in
spring, of course. It must be delightful to come into the world with
the mayflowers and violets. You would always feel that you were their
foster sister. But since I didn’t, the next best thing is to celebrate
my birthday in the spring. Priscilla is coming over Saturday and Jane
will be home. We’ll all four start off to the woods and spend a golden
day making the acquaintance of the spring. We none of us really know
her yet, but we’ll meet her back there as we never can anywhere else. I
want to explore all those fields and lonely places anyhow. I have a
conviction that there are scores of beautiful nooks there that have
never really been _seen_ although they may have been _looked_ at. We’ll
make friends with wind and sky and sun, and bring home the spring in
our hearts.”

“It _sounds_ awfully nice,” said Diana, with some inward distrust of
Anne’s magic of words. “But won’t it be very damp in some places yet?”

“Oh, we’ll wear rubbers,” was Anne’s concession to practicalities. “And
I want you to come over early Saturday morning and help me prepare
lunch. I’m going to have the daintiest things possible . . . things
that will match the spring, you understand . . . little jelly tarts and
lady fingers, and drop cookies frosted with pink and yellow icing, and
buttercup cake. And we must have sandwiches too, though they’re _not_
very poetical.”

Saturday proved an ideal day for a picnic . . . a day of breeze and
blue, warm, sunny, with a little rollicking wind blowing across meadow
and orchard. Over every sunlit upland and field was a delicate,
flower-starred green.

Mr. Harrison, harrowing at the back of his farm and feeling some of the
spring witch-work even in his sober, middle-aged blood, saw four girls,
basket laden, tripping across the end of his field where it joined a
fringing woodland of birch and fir. Their blithe voices and laughter
echoed down to him.

“It’s so easy to be happy on a day like this, isn’t it?” Anne was
saying, with true Anneish philosophy. “Let’s try to make this a really
golden day, girls, a day to which we can always look back with delight.
We’re to seek for beauty and refuse to see anything else. ‘Begone, dull
care!’ Jane, you are thinking of something that went wrong in school
yesterday.”

“How do you know?” gasped Jane, amazed.