“Oh, I know the expression . . . I’ve felt it often enough on my own
face. But put it out of your mind, there’s a dear. It will keep till
Monday . . . or if it doesn’t so much the better. Oh, girls, girls, see
that patch of violets! There’s something for memory’s picture gallery.
When I’m eighty years old . . . if I ever am . . . I shall shut my eyes
and see those violets just as I see them now. That’s the first good
gift our day has given us.”

“If a kiss could be seen I think it would look like a violet,” said
Priscilla.

Anne glowed.

“I’m so glad you _spoke_ that thought, Priscilla, instead of just
thinking it and keeping it to yourself. This world would be a much more
interesting place . . . although it _is_ very interesting anyhow . . .
if people spoke out their real thoughts.”

“It would be too hot to hold some folks,” quoted Jane sagely.

“I suppose it might be, but that would be their own faults for thinking
nasty things. Anyhow, we can tell all our thoughts today because we are
going to have nothing but beautiful thoughts. Everybody can say just
what comes into her head. _That_ is conversation. Here’s a little path
I never saw before. Let’s explore it.”

The path was a winding one, so narrow that the girls walked in single
file and even then the fir boughs brushed their faces. Under the firs
were velvety cushions of moss, and further on, where the trees were
smaller and fewer, the ground was rich in a variety of green growing
things.

“What a lot of elephant’s ears,” exclaimed Diana. “I’m going to pick a
big bunch, they’re so pretty.”

“How did such graceful feathery things ever come to have such a
dreadful name?” asked Priscilla.

“Because the person who first named them either had no imagination at
all or else far too much,” said Anne, “Oh, girls, look at that!”

“That” was a shallow woodland pool in the center of a little open glade
where the path ended. Later on in the season it would be dried up and
its place filled with a rank growth of ferns; but now it was a
glimmering placid sheet, round as a saucer and clear as crystal. A ring
of slender young birches encircled it and little ferns fringed its
margin.

“_How_ sweet!” said Jane.

“Let us dance around it like wood-nymphs,” cried Anne, dropping her
basket and extending her hands.

But the dance was not a success for the ground was boggy and Jane’s
rubbers came off.

“You can’t be a wood-nymph if you have to wear rubbers,” was her
decision.

“Well, we must name this place before we leave it,” said Anne, yielding
to the indisputable logic of facts. “Everybody suggest a name and we’ll
draw lots. Diana?”

“Birch Pool,” suggested Diana promptly.

“Crystal Lake,” said Jane.