Anne, standing behind them, implored Priscilla with her eyes not to
perpetrate another such name and Priscilla rose to the occasion with
“Glimmer-glass.” Anne’s selection was “The Fairies’ Mirror.”

The names were written on strips of birch bark with a pencil
Schoolma’am Jane produced from her pocket, and placed in Anne’s hat.
Then Priscilla shut her eyes and drew one. “Crystal Lake,” read Jane
triumphantly. Crystal Lake it was, and if Anne thought that chance had
played the pool a shabby trick she did not say so.

Pushing through the undergrowth beyond, the girls came out to the young
green seclusion of Mr. Silas Sloane’s back pasture. Across it they
found the entrance to a lane striking up through the woods and voted to
explore it also. It rewarded their quest with a succession of pretty
surprises. First, skirting Mr. Sloane’s pasture, came an archway of
wild cherry trees all in bloom. The girls swung their hats on their
arms and wreathed their hair with the creamy, fluffy blossoms. Then the
lane turned at right angles and plunged into a spruce wood so thick and
dark that they walked in a gloom as of twilight, with not a glimpse of
sky or sunlight to be seen.

“This is where the bad wood elves dwell,” whispered Anne. “They are
impish and malicious but they can’t harm us, because they are not
allowed to do evil in the spring. There was one peeping at us around
that old twisted fir; and didn’t you see a group of them on that big
freckly toadstool we just passed? The good fairies always dwell in the
sunshiny places.”

“I wish there really were fairies,” said Jane. “Wouldn’t it be nice to
have three wishes granted you . . . or even only one? What would you
wish for, girls, if you could have a wish granted? I’d wish to be rich
and beautiful and clever.”

“I’d wish to be tall and slender,” said Diana.

“I would wish to be famous,” said Priscilla. Anne thought of her hair
and then dismissed the thought as unworthy.

“I’d wish it might be spring all the time and in everybody’s heart and
all our lives,” she said.

“But that,” said Priscilla, “would be just wishing this world were like
heaven.”

“Only like a part of heaven. In the other parts there would be summer
and autumn . . . yes, and a bit of winter, too. I think I want
glittering snowy fields and white frosts in heaven sometimes. Don’t
you, Jane?”

“I . . . I don’t know,” said Jane uncomfortably. Jane was a good girl,
a member of the church, who tried conscientiously to live up to her
profession and believed everything she had been taught. But she never
thought about heaven any more than she could help, for all that.

“Minnie May asked me the other day if we would wear our best dresses
every day in heaven,” laughed Diana.

“And didn’t you tell her we would?” asked Anne.