“Mercy, no! I told her we wouldn’t be thinking of dresses at all
there.”

“Oh, I think we will . . . a _little_,” said Anne earnestly. “There’ll
be plenty of time in all eternity for it without neglecting more
important things. I believe we’ll all wear beautiful dresses . . . or I
suppose _raiment_ would be a more suitable way of speaking. I shall
want to wear pink for a few centuries at first . . . it would take me
that long to get tired of it, I feel sure. I do love pink so and I can
never wear it in _this_ world.”

Past the spruces the lane dipped down into a sunny little open where a
log bridge spanned a brook; and then came the glory of a sunlit
beechwood where the air was like transparent golden wine, and the
leaves fresh and green, and the wood floor a mosaic of tremulous
sunshine. Then more wild cherries, and a little valley of lissome firs,
and then a hill so steep that the girls lost their breath climbing it;
but when they reached the top and came out into the open the prettiest
surprise of all awaited them.

Beyond were the “back fields” of the farms that ran out to the upper
Carmody road. Just before them, hemmed in by beeches and firs but open
to the south, was a little corner and in it a garden . . . or what had
once been a garden. A tumbledown stone dyke, overgrown with mosses and
grass, surrounded it. Along the eastern side ran a row of garden cherry
trees, white as a snowdrift. There were traces of old paths still and a
double line of rosebushes through the middle; but all the rest of the
space was a sheet of yellow and white narcissi, in their airiest, most
lavish, wind-swayed bloom above the lush green grasses.

“Oh, how perfectly lovely!” three of the girls cried. Anne only gazed
in eloquent silence.

“How in the world does it happen that there ever was a garden back
here?” said Priscilla in amazement.

“It must be Hester Gray’s garden,” said Diana. “I’ve heard mother speak
of it but I never saw it before, and I wouldn’t have supposed that it
could be in existence still. You’ve heard the story, Anne?”

“No, but the name seems familiar to me.”

“Oh, you’ve seen it in the graveyard. She is buried down there in the
poplar corner. You know the little brown stone with the opening gates
carved on it and ‘Sacred to the memory of Hester Gray, aged
twenty-two.’ Jordan Gray is buried right beside her but there’s no
stone to him. It’s a wonder Marilla never told you about it, Anne. To
be sure, it happened thirty years ago and everybody has forgotten.”