“Well, if there’s a story we must have it,” said Anne. “Let’s sit right
down here among the narcissi and Diana will tell it. Why, girls, there
are hundreds of them . . . they’ve spread over everything. It looks as
if the garden were carpeted with moonshine and sunshine combined. This
is a discovery worth making. To think that I’ve lived within a mile of
this place for six years and have never seen it before! Now, Diana.”

“Long ago,” began Diana, “this farm belonged to old Mr. David Gray. He
didn’t live on it . . . he lived where Silas Sloane lives now. He had
one son, Jordan, and he went up to Boston one winter to work and while
he was there he fell in love with a girl named Hester Murray. She was
working in a store and she hated it. She’d been brought up in the
country and she always wanted to get back. When Jordan asked her to
marry him she said she would if he’d take her away to some quiet spot
where she’d see nothing but fields and trees. So he brought her to
Avonlea. Mrs. Lynde said he was taking a fearful risk in marrying a
Yankee, and it’s certain that Hester was very delicate and a very poor
housekeeper; but mother says she was very pretty and sweet and Jordan
just worshipped the ground she walked on. Well, Mr. Gray gave Jordan
this farm and he built a little house back here and Jordan and Hester
lived in it for four years. She never went out much and hardly anybody
went to see her except mother and Mrs. Lynde. Jordan made her this
garden and she was crazy about it and spent most of her time in it. She
wasn’t much of a housekeeper but she had a knack with flowers. And then
she got sick. Mother says she thinks she was in consumption before she
ever came here. She never really laid up but just grew weaker and
weaker all the time. Jordan wouldn’t have anybody to wait on her. He
did it all himself and mother says he was as tender and gentle as a
woman. Every day he’d wrap her in a shawl and carry her out to the
garden and she’d lie there on a bench quite happy. They say she used to
make Jordan kneel down by her every night and morning and pray with her
that she might die out in the garden when the time came. And her prayer
was answered. One day Jordan carried her out to the bench and then he
picked all the roses that were out and heaped them over her; and she
just smiled up at him . . . and closed her eyes . . . and that,”
concluded Diana softly, “was the end.”

“Oh, what a dear story,” sighed Anne, wiping away her tears.

“What became of Jordan?” asked Priscilla.