“He sold the farm after Hester died and went back to Boston. Mr. Jabez
Sloane bought the farm and hauled the little house out to the road.
Jordan died about ten years after and he was brought home and buried
beside Hester.”

“I can’t understand how she could have wanted to live back here, away
from everything,” said Jane.

“Oh, I can easily understand _that_,” said Anne thoughtfully. “I
wouldn’t want it myself for a steady thing, because, although I love
the fields and woods, I love people too. But I can understand it in
Hester. She was tired to death of the noise of the big city and the
crowds of people always coming and going and caring nothing for her.
She just wanted to escape from it all to some still, green, friendly
place where she could rest. And she got just what she wanted, which is
something very few people do, I believe. She had four beautiful years
before she died. . . four years of perfect happiness, so I think she
was to be envied more than pitied. And then to shut your eyes and fall
asleep among roses, with the one you loved best on earth smiling down
at you . . . oh, I think it was beautiful!”

“She set out those cherry trees over there,” said Diana. “She told
mother she’d never live to eat their fruit, but she wanted to think
that something she had planted would go on living and helping to make
the world beautiful after she was dead.”

“I’m so glad we came this way,” said Anne, the shining-eyed. “This is
my adopted birthday, you know, and this garden and its story is the
birthday gift it has given me. Did your mother ever tell you what
Hester Gray looked like, Diana?”

“No . . . only just that she was pretty.”

“I’m rather glad of that, because I can imagine what she looked like,
without being hampered by facts. I think she was very slight and small,
with softly curling dark hair and big, sweet, timid brown eyes, and a
little wistful, pale face.”

The girls left their baskets in Hester’s garden and spent the rest of
the afternoon rambling in the woods and fields surrounding it,
discovering many pretty nooks and lanes. When they got hungry they had
lunch in the prettiest spot of all . . . on the steep bank of a
gurgling brook where white birches shot up out of long feathery
grasses. The girls sat down by the roots and did full justice to Anne’s
dainties, even the unpoetical sandwiches being greatly appreciated by
hearty, unspoiled appetites sharpened by all the fresh air and exercise
they had enjoyed. Anne had brought glasses and lemonade for her guests,
but for her own part drank cold brook water from a cup fashioned out of
birch bark. The cup leaked, and the water tasted of earth, as brook
water is apt to do in spring; but Anne thought it more appropriate to
the occasion than lemonade.