“Look do you see that poem?” she said suddenly, pointing.

“Where?” Jane and Diana stared, as if expecting to see Runic rhymes on
the birch trees.

“There . . . down in the brook . . . that old green, mossy log with the
water flowing over it in those smooth ripples that look as if they’d
been combed, and that single shaft of sunshine falling right athwart
it, far down into the pool. Oh, it’s the most beautiful poem I ever
saw.”

“I should rather call it a picture,” said Jane. “A poem is lines and
verses.”

“Oh dear me, no.” Anne shook her head with its fluffy wild cherry
coronal positively. “The lines and verses are only the outward garments
of the poem and are no more really it than your ruffles and flounces
are _you_, Jane. The real poem is the soul within them . . . and that
beautiful bit is the soul of an unwritten poem. It is not every day one
sees a soul . . . even of a poem.”

“I wonder what a soul . . . a person’s soul . . . would look like,”
said Priscilla dreamily.

“Like that, I should think,” answered Anne, pointing to a radiance of
sifted sunlight streaming through a birch tree. “Only with shape and
features of course. I like to fancy souls as being made of light. And
some are all shot through with rosy stains and quivers . . . and some
have a soft glitter like moonlight on the sea . . . and some are pale
and transparent like mist at dawn.”

“I read somewhere once that souls were like flowers,” said Priscilla.

“Then your soul is a golden narcissus,” said Anne, “and Diana’s is like
a red, red rose. Jane’s is an apple blossom, pink and wholesome and
sweet.”

“And your own is a white violet, with purple streaks in its heart,”
finished Priscilla.

Jane whispered to Diana that she really could not understand what they
were talking about. Could she?

The girls went home by the light of a calm golden sunset, their baskets
filled with narcissus blossoms from Hester’s garden, some of which Anne
carried to the cemetery next day and laid upon Hester’s grave. Minstrel
robins were whistling in the firs and the frogs were singing in the
marshes. All the basins among the hills were brimmed with topaz and
emerald light.

“Well, we have had a lovely time after all,” said Diana, as if she had
hardly expected to have it when she set out.

“It has been a truly golden day,” said Priscilla.

“I’m really awfully fond of the woods myself,” said Jane.

Anne said nothing. She was looking afar into the western sky and
thinking of little Hester Gray.

XIV
A Danger Averted

Anne, walking home from the post office one Friday evening, was joined
by Mrs. Lynde, who was as usual cumbered with all the cares of church
and state.