“I’ve just been down to Timothy Cotton’s to see if I could get Alice
Louise to help me for a few days,” she said. “I had her last week, for,
though she’s too slow to stop quick, she’s better than nobody. But
she’s sick and can’t come. Timothy’s sitting there, too, coughing and
complaining. He’s been dying for ten years and he’ll go on dying for
ten years more. That kind can’t even die and have done with it . . .
they can’t stick to anything, even to being sick, long enough to finish
it. They’re a terrible shiftless family and what is to become of them I
don’t know, but perhaps Providence does.”

Mrs. Lynde sighed as if she rather doubted the extent of Providential
knowledge on the subject.

“Marilla was in about her eyes again Tuesday, wasn’t she? What did the
specialist think of them?” she continued.

“He was much pleased,” said Anne brightly. “He says there is a great
improvement in them and he thinks the danger of her losing her sight
completely is past. But he says she’ll never be able to read much or do
any fine hand-work again. How are your preparations for your bazaar
coming on?”

The Ladies’ Aid Society was preparing for a fair and supper, and Mrs.
Lynde was the head and front of the enterprise.

“Pretty well . . . and that reminds me. Mrs. Allan thinks it would be
nice to fix up a booth like an old-time kitchen and serve a supper of
baked beans, doughnuts, pie, and so on. We’re collecting old-fashioned
fixings everywhere. Mrs. Simon Fletcher is going to lend us her
mother’s braided rugs and Mrs. Levi Boulter some old chairs and Aunt
Mary Shaw will lend us her cupboard with the glass doors. I suppose
Marilla will let us have her brass candlesticks? And we want all the
old dishes we can get. Mrs. Allan is specially set on having a real
blue willow ware platter if we can find one. But nobody seems to have
one. Do you know where we could get one?”

“Miss Josephine Barry has one. I’ll write and ask her if she’ll lend it
for the occasion,” said Anne.

“Well, I wish you would. I guess we’ll have the supper in about a
fortnight’s time. Uncle Abe Andrews is prophesying rain and storms for
about that time; and that’s a pretty sure sign we’ll have fine
weather.”

The said “Uncle Abe,” it may be mentioned, was at least like other
prophets in that he had small honor in his own country. He was, in
fact, considered in the light of a standing joke, for few of his
weather predictions were ever fulfilled. Mr. Elisha Wright, who labored
under the impression that he was a local wit, used to say that nobody
in Avonlea ever thought of looking in the Charlottetown dailies for
weather probabilities. No; they just asked Uncle Abe what it was going
to be tomorrow and expected the opposite. Nothing daunted, Uncle Abe
kept on prophesying.