“Chester Sloane says we’ll do nothing all the time in heaven but walk
around in white dresses and play on harps; and he says he hopes he
won’t have to go till he’s an old man, ’cause maybe he’ll like it
better then. And he thinks it will be horrid to wear dresses and I
think so too. Why can’t men angels wear trousers, Anne? Chester Sloane
is interested in those things, ’cause they’re going to make a minister
of him. He’s got to be a minister ’cause his grandmother left the money
to send him to college and he can’t have it unless he is a minister.
She thought a minister was such a ‘spectable thing to have in a family.
Chester says he doesn’t mind much . . . though he’d rather be a
blacksmith . . . but he’s bound to have all the fun he can before he
begins to be a minister, ’cause he doesn’t expect to have much
afterwards. _I_ ain’t going to be a minister. I’m going to be a
storekeeper, like Mr. Blair, and keep heaps of candy and bananas. But
I’d rather like going to your kind of a heaven if they’d let me play a
mouth organ instead of a harp. Do you s’pose they would?”

“Yes, I think they would if you wanted it,” was all Anne could trust
herself to say.

The A.V.I.S. met at Mr. Harmon Andrews’ that evening and a full
attendance had been requested, since important business was to be
discussed. The A.V.I.S. was in a flourishing condition, and had already
accomplished wonders. Early in the spring Mr. Major Spencer had
redeemed his promise and had stumped, graded, and seeded down all the
road front of his farm. A dozen other men, some prompted by a
determination not to let a Spencer get ahead of them, others goaded
into action by Improvers in their own households, had followed his
example. The result was that there were long strips of smooth velvet
turf where once had been unsightly undergrowth or brush. The farm
fronts that had not been done looked so badly by contrast that their
owners were secretly shamed into resolving to see what they could do
another spring. The triangle of ground at the cross roads had also been
cleared and seeded down, and Anne’s bed of geraniums, unharmed by any
marauding cow, was already set out in the center.

Altogether, the Improvers thought that they were getting on
beautifully, even if Mr. Levi Boulter, tactfully approached by a
carefully selected committee in regard to the old house on his upper
farm, did bluntly tell them that he wasn’t going to have it meddled
with.