At this especial meeting they intended to draw up a petition to the
school trustees, humbly praying that a fence be put around the school
grounds; and a plan was also to be discussed for planting a few
ornamental trees by the church, if the funds of the society would
permit of it . . . for, as Anne said, there was no use in starting
another subscription as long as the hall remained blue. The members
were assembled in the Andrews’ parlor and Jane was already on her feet
to move the appointment of a committee which should find out and report
on the price of said trees, when Gertie Pye swept in, pompadoured and
frilled within an inch of her life. Gertie had a habit of being late .
. . “to make her entrance more effective,” spiteful people said.
Gertie’s entrance in this instance was certainly effective, for she
paused dramatically on the middle of the floor, threw up her hands,
rolled her eyes, and exclaimed, “I’ve just heard something perfectly
awful. What _do_ you think? Mr. Judson Parker _is going to rent all the
road fence of his farm to a patent medicine company to paint
advertisements on_.”

For once in her life Gertie Pye made all the sensation she desired. If
she had thrown a bomb among the complacent Improvers she could hardly
have made more.

“It _can’t_ be true,” said Anne blankly.

“That’s just what _I_ said when I heard it first, don’t you know,” said
Gertie, who was enjoying herself hugely. “_I_ said it couldn’t be true
. . . that Judson Parker wouldn’t have the _heart_ to do it, don’t you
know. But father met him this afternoon and asked him about it and he
said it WAS true. Just fancy! His farm is side-on to the Newbridge road
and how perfectly awful it will look to see advertisements of pills and
plasters all along it, don’t you know?”

The Improvers _did_ know, all too well. Even the least imaginative
among them could picture the grotesque effect of half a mile of board
fence adorned with such advertisements. All thought of church and
school grounds vanished before this new danger. Parliamentary rules and
regulations were forgotten, and Anne, in despair, gave up trying to
keep minutes at all. Everybody talked at once and fearful was the
hubbub.

“Oh, let us keep calm,” implored Anne, who was the most excited of them
all, “and try to think of some way of preventing him.”

“I don’t know how you’re going to prevent him,” exclaimed Jane
bitterly. “Everybody knows what Judson Parker is. He’d do _anything_
for money. He hasn’t a _spark_ of public spirit or _any_ sense of the
beautiful.”