The prospect looked rather unpromising. Judson Parker and his sister
were the only Parkers in Avonlea, so that no leverage could be exerted
by family connections. Martha Parker was a lady of all too certain age
who disapproved of young people in general and the Improvers in
particular. Judson was a jovial, smooth-spoken man, so uniformly
goodnatured and bland that it was surprising how few friends he had.
Perhaps he had got the better in too many business transactions. . .
which seldom makes for popularity. He was reputed to be very “sharp”
and it was the general opinion that he “hadn’t much principle.”

“If Judson Parker has a chance to ‘turn an honest penny,’ as he says
himself, he’ll never lose it,” declared Fred Wright.

“Is there _nobody_ who has any influence over him?” asked Anne
despairingly.

“He goes to see Louisa Spencer at White Sands,” suggested Carrie
Sloane. “Perhaps she could coax him not to rent his fences.”

“Not she,” said Gilbert emphatically. “I know Louisa Spencer well. She
doesn’t ‘believe’ in Village Improvement Societies, but she _does_
believe in dollars and cents. She’d be more likely to urge Judson on
than to dissuade him.”

“The only thing to do is to appoint a committee to wait on him and
protest,” said Julia Bell, “and you must send girls, for he’d hardly be
civil to boys . . . but _I_ won’t go, so nobody need nominate me.”

“Better send Anne alone,” said Oliver Sloane. “She can talk Judson over
if anybody can.”

Anne protested. She was willing to go and do the talking; but she must
have others with her “for moral support.” Diana and Jane were therefore
appointed to support her morally and the Improvers broke up, buzzing
like angry bees with indignation. Anne was so worried that she didn’t
sleep until nearly morning, and then she dreamed that the trustees had
put a fence around the school and painted “Try Purple Pills” all over
it.

The committee waited on Judson Parker the next afternoon. Anne pleaded
eloquently against his nefarious design and Jane and Diana supported
her morally and valiantly. Judson was sleek, suave, flattering; paid
them several compliments of the delicacy of sunflowers; felt real bad
to refuse such charming young ladies . . . but business was business;
couldn’t afford to let sentiment stand in the way these hard times.

“But I’ll tell what I _will_ do,” he said, with a twinkle in his light,
full eyes. “I’ll tell the agent he must use only handsome, tasty colors
. . . red and yellow and so on. I’ll tell him he mustn’t paint the ads
_blue_ on any account.”

The vanquished committee retired, thinking things not lawful to be
uttered.

“We have done all we can do and must simply trust the rest to
Providence,” said Jane, with an unconscious imitation of Mrs. Lynde’s
tone and manner.

“I wonder if Mr. Allan could do anything,” reflected Diana.

Anne shook her head.