“No, it’s no use to worry Mr. Allan, especially now when the baby’s so
sick. Judson would slip away from him as smoothly as from us, although
he _has_ taken to going to church quite regularly just now. That is
simply because Louisa Spencer’s father is an elder and very particular
about such things.”

“Judson Parker is the only man in Avonlea who would dream of renting
his fences,” said Jane indignantly. “Even Levi Boulter or Lorenzo White
would never stoop to that, tightfisted as they are. They would have too
much respect for public opinion.”

Public opinion was certainly down on Judson Parker when the facts
became known, but that did not help matters much. Judson chuckled to
himself and defied it, and the Improvers were trying to reconcile
themselves to the prospect of seeing the prettiest part of the
Newbridge road defaced by advertisements, when Anne rose quietly at the
president’s call for reports of committees on the occasion of the next
meeting of the Society, and announced that Mr. Judson Parker had
instructed her to inform the Society that he was _not_ going to rent
his fences to the Patent Medicine Company.

Jane and Diana stared as if they found it hard to believe their ears.
Parliamentary etiquette, which was generally very strictly enforced in
the A.V.I.S., forbade them giving instant vent to their curiosity, but
after the Society adjourned Anne was besieged for explanations. Anne
had no explanation to give. Judson Parker had overtaken her on the road
the preceding evening and told her that he had decided to humor the
A.V.I.S. in its peculiar prejudice against patent medicine
advertisements. That was all Anne would say, then or ever afterwards,
and it was the simple truth; but when Jane Andrews, on her way home,
confided to Oliver Sloane her firm belief that there was more behind
Judson Parker’s mysterious change of heart than Anne Shirley had
revealed, she spoke the truth also.

Anne had been down to old Mrs. Irving’s on the shore road the preceding
evening and had come home by a short cut which led her first over the
low-lying shore fields, and then through the beech wood below Robert
Dickson’s, by a little footpath that ran out to the main road just
above the Lake of Shining Waters . . . known to unimaginative people as
Barry’s pond.