Two men were sitting in their buggies, reined off to the side of the
road, just at the entrance of the path. One was Judson Parker; the
other was Jerry Corcoran, a Newbridge man against whom, as Mrs. Lynde
would have told you in eloquent italics, nothing shady had ever been
_proved_. He was an agent for agricultural implements and a prominent
personage in matters political. He had a finger . . . some people said
_all_ his fingers . . . in every political pie that was cooked; and as
Canada was on the eve of a general election Jerry Corcoran had been a
busy man for many weeks, canvassing the county in the interests of his
party’s candidate. Just as Anne emerged from under the overhanging
beech boughs she heard Corcoran say, “If you’ll vote for Amesbury,
Parker . . . well, I’ve a note for that pair of harrows you’ve got in
the spring. I suppose you wouldn’t object to having it back, eh?”

“We . . . ll, since you put it in that way,” drawled Judson with a
grin, “I reckon I might as well do it. A man must look out for his own
interests in these hard times.”

Both saw Anne at this moment and conversation abruptly ceased. Anne
bowed frostily and walked on, with her chin slightly more tilted than
usual. Soon Judson Parker overtook her.

“Have a lift, Anne?” he inquired genially.

“Thank you, no,” said Anne politely, but with a fine, needle-like
disdain in her voice that pierced even Judson Parker’s none too
sensitive consciousness. His face reddened and he twitched his reins
angrily; but the next second prudential considerations checked him. He
looked uneasily at Anne, as she walked steadily on, glancing neither to
the right nor to the left. Had she heard Corcoran’s unmistakable offer
and his own too plain acceptance of it? Confound Corcoran! If he
couldn’t put his meaning into less dangerous phrases he’d get into
trouble some of these long-come-shorts. And confound redheaded
school-ma’ams with a habit of popping out of beechwoods where they had
no business to be. If Anne had heard, Judson Parker, measuring her corn
in his own half bushel, as the country saying went, and cheating
himself thereby, as such people generally do, believed that she would
tell it far and wide. Now, Judson Parker, as has been seen, was not
overly regardful of public opinion; but to be known as having accepted
a bribe would be a nasty thing; and if it ever reached Isaac Spencer’s
ears farewell forever to all hope of winning Louisa Jane with her
comfortable prospects as the heiress of a well-to-do farmer. Judson
Parker knew that Mr. Spencer looked somewhat askance at him as it was;
he could not afford to take any risks.