“Ahem . . . Anne, I’ve been wanting to see you about that little matter
we were discussing the other day. I’ve decided not to let my fences to
that company after all. A society with an aim like yours ought to be
encouraged.”

Anne thawed out the merest trifle.

“Thank you,” she said.

“And . . . and . . . you needn’t mention that little conversation of
mine with Jerry.”

“I have no intention of mentioning it in any case,” said Anne icily,
for she would have seen every fence in Avonlea painted with
advertisements before she would have stooped to bargain with a man who
would sell his vote.

“Just so . . . just so,” agreed Judson, imagining that they understood
each other beautifully. “I didn’t suppose you would. Of course, I was
only stringing Jerry . . . he thinks he’s so all-fired cute and smart.
I’ve no intention of voting for Amesbury. I’m going to vote for Grant
as I’ve always done . . . you’ll see that when the election comes off.
I just led Jerry on to see if he would commit himself. And it’s all
right about the fence . . . you can tell the Improvers that.”

“It takes all sorts of people to make a world, as I’ve often heard, but
I think there are some who could be spared,” Anne told her reflection
in the east gable mirror that night. “I wouldn’t have mentioned the
disgraceful thing to a soul anyhow, so my conscience is clear on _that_
score. I really don’t know who or what is to be thanked for this. _I_
did nothing to bring it about, and it’s hard to believe that Providence
ever works by means of the kind of politics men like Judson Parker and
Jerry Corcoran have.”

XV
The Beginning of Vacation

Anne locked the schoolhouse door on a still, yellow evening, when the
winds were purring in the spruces around the playground, and the
shadows were long and lazy by the edge of the woods. She dropped the
key into her pocket with a sigh of satisfaction. The school year was
ended, she had been reengaged for the next, with many expressions of
satisfaction. . . . only Mr. Harmon Andrews told her she ought to use
the strap oftener . . . and two delightful months of a well-earned
vacation beckoned her invitingly. Anne felt at peace with the world and
herself as she walked down the hill with her basket of flowers in her
hand. Since the earliest mayflowers Anne had never missed her weekly
pilgrimage to Matthew’s grave. Everyone else in Avonlea, except
Marilla, had already forgotten quiet, shy, unimportant Matthew
Cuthbert; but his memory was still green in Anne’s heart and always
would be. She could never forget the kind old man who had been the
first to give her the love and sympathy her starved childhood had
craved.