At the foot of the hill a boy was sitting on the fence in the shadow of
the spruces . . . a boy with big, dreamy eyes and a beautiful,
sensitive face. He swung down and joined Anne, smiling; but there were
traces of tears on his cheeks.

“I thought I’d wait for you, teacher, because I knew you were going to
the graveyard,” he said, slipping his hand into hers. “I’m going there,
too . . . I’m taking this bouquet of geraniums to put on Grandpa
Irving’s grave for grandma. And look, teacher, I’m going to put this
bunch of white roses beside Grandpa’s grave in memory of my little
mother. . . because I can’t go to her grave to put it there. But don’t
you think she’ll know all about it, just the same?”

“Yes, I am sure she will, Paul.”

“You see, teacher, it’s just three years today since my little mother
died. It’s such a long, long time but it hurts just as much as ever . .
. and I miss her just as much as ever. Sometimes it seems to me that I
just can’t bear it, it hurts so.”

Paul’s voice quivered and his lip trembled. He looked down at his
roses, hoping that his teacher would not notice the tears in his eyes.

“And yet,” said Anne, very softly, “you wouldn’t want it to stop
hurting . . . you wouldn’t want to forget your little mother even if
you could.”

“No, indeed, I wouldn’t . . . that’s just the way I feel. You’re so
good at understanding, teacher. Nobody else understands so well . . .
not even grandma, although she’s so good to me. Father understood
pretty well, but still I couldn’t talk much to him about mother,
because it made him feel so bad. When he put his hand over his face I
always knew it was time to stop. Poor father, he must be dreadfully
lonesome without me; but you see he has nobody but a housekeeper now
and he thinks housekeepers are no good to bring up little boys,
especially when he has to be away from home so much on business.
Grandmothers are better, next to mothers. Someday, when I’m brought up,
I’ll go back to father and we’re never going to be parted again.”

Paul had talked so much to Anne about his mother and father that she
felt as if she had known them. She thought his mother must have been
very like what he was himself, in temperament and disposition; and she
had an idea that Stephen Irving was a rather reserved man with a deep
and tender nature which he kept hidden scrupulously from the world.