“Father’s not very easy to get acquainted with,” Paul had said once. “I
never got really acquainted with him until after my little mother died.
But he’s splendid when you do get to know him. I love him the best in
all the world, and Grandma Irving next, and then you, teacher. I’d love
you next to father if it wasn’t my _duty_ to love Grandma Irving best,
because she’s doing so much for me. _You_ know, teacher. I wish she
would leave the lamp in my room till I go to sleep, though. She takes
it right out as soon as she tucks me up because she says I mustn’t be a
coward. I’m _not_ scared, but I’d _rather_ have the light. My little
mother used always to sit beside me and hold my hand till I went to
sleep. I expect she spoiled me. Mothers do sometimes, you know.”

No, Anne did not know this, although she might imagine it. She thought
sadly of _her_ “little mother,” the mother who had thought her so
“perfectly beautiful” and who had died so long ago and was buried
beside her boyish husband in that unvisited grave far away. Anne could
not remember her mother and for this reason she almost envied Paul.

“My birthday is next week,” said Paul, as they walked up the long red
hill, basking in the June sunshine, “and father wrote me that he is
sending me something that he thinks I’ll like better than anything else
he could send. I believe it has come already, for Grandma is keeping
the bookcase drawer locked and that is something new. And when I asked
her why, she just looked mysterious and said little boys mustn’t be too
curious. It’s very exciting to have a birthday, isn’t it? I’ll be
eleven. You’d never think it to look at me, would you? Grandma says I’m
very small for my age and that it’s all because I don’t eat enough
porridge. I do my very best, but Grandma gives such _generous_
platefuls . . . there’s nothing mean about Grandma, I can tell you.
Ever since you and I had that talk about praying going home from Sunday
School that day, teacher . . . when you said we ought to pray about all
our difficulties . . . I’ve prayed every night that God would give me
enough grace to enable me to eat every bit of my porridge in the
mornings. But I’ve never been able to do it yet, and whether it’s
because I have too little grace or too much porridge I really can’t
decide. Grandma says father was brought up on porridge, and it
certainly did work well in his case, for you ought to see the shoulders
he has. But sometimes,” concluded Paul with a sigh and a meditative air
“I really think porridge will be the death of me.”