“Nonsense, dear, he deserved it. And it agreed with him. You have had
no trouble with him since and he has come to think there’s nobody like
you. Your kindness won his love after the idea that a ‘girl was no
good’ was rooted out of his stubborn mind.”

“He may have deserved it, but that is not the point. If I had calmly
and deliberately decided to whip him because I thought it a just
punishment for him I would not feel over it as I do. But the truth is,
Mrs. Allan, that I just flew into a temper and whipped him because of
that. I wasn’t thinking whether it was just or unjust . . . even if he
hadn’t deserved it I’d have done it just the same. That is what
humiliates me.”

“Well, we all make mistakes, dear, so just put it behind you. We should
regret our mistakes and learn from them, but never carry them forward
into the future with us. There goes Gilbert Blythe on his wheel . . .
home for his vacation too, I suppose. How are you and he getting on
with your studies?”

“Pretty well. We plan to finish the Virgil tonight . . . there are only
twenty lines to do. Then we are not going to study any more until
September.”

“Do you think you will ever get to college?”

“Oh, I don’t know.” Anne looked dreamily afar to the opal-tinted
horizon. “Marilla’s eyes will never be much better than they are now,
although we are so thankful to think that they will not get worse. And
then there are the twins . . . somehow I don’t believe their uncle will
ever really send for them. Perhaps college may be around the bend in
the road, but I haven’t got to the bend yet and I don’t think much
about it lest I might grow discontented.”

“Well, I should like to see you go to college, Anne; but if you never
do, don’t be discontented about it. We make our own lives wherever we
are, after all . . . college can only help us to do it more easily.
They are broad or narrow according to what we put into them, not what
we get out. Life is rich and full here . . . everywhere . . . if we can
only learn how to open our whole hearts to its richness and fulness.”

“I think I understand what you mean,” said Anne thoughtfully, “and I
know I have so much to feel thankful for . . . oh, so much . . . my
work, and Paul Irving, and the dear twins, and all my friends. Do you
know, Mrs. Allan, I’m so thankful for friendship. It beautifies life so
much.”