“True friendship is a very helpful thing indeed,” said Mrs. Allan, “and
we should have a very high ideal of it, and never sully it by any
failure in truth and sincerity. I fear the name of friendship is often
degraded to a kind of intimacy that has nothing of real friendship in
it.”

“Yes . . . like Gertie Pye’s and Julia Bell’s. They are very intimate
and go everywhere together; but Gertie is always saying nasty things of
Julia behind her back and everybody thinks she is jealous of her
because she is always so pleased when anybody criticizes Julia. I think
it is desecration to call _that_ friendship. If we have friends we
should look only for the best in them and give them the best that is in
us, don’t you think? Then friendship would be the most beautiful thing
in the world.”

“Friendship _is_ very beautiful,” smiled Mrs. Allan, “but some day . .
.”

Then she paused abruptly. In the delicate, white-browed face beside
her, with its candid eyes and mobile features, there was still far more
of the child than of the woman. Anne’s heart so far harbored only
dreams of friendship and ambition, and Mrs. Allan did not wish to brush
the bloom from her sweet unconsciousness. So she left her sentence for
the future years to finish.

XVI
The Substance of Things Hoped For

“Anne,” said Davy appealingly, scrambling up on the shiny,
leather-covered sofa in the Green Gables kitchen, where Anne sat,
reading a letter, “Anne, I’m _awful_ hungry. You’ve no idea.”

“I’ll get you a piece of bread and butter in a minute,” said Anne
absently. Her letter evidently contained some exciting news, for her
cheeks were as pink as the roses on the big bush outside, and her eyes
were as starry as only Anne’s eyes could be.

“But I ain’t bread and butter hungry,” said Davy in a disgusted tone.
“I’m plum cake hungry.”

“Oh,” laughed Anne, laying down her letter and putting her arm about
Davy to give him a squeeze, “that’s a kind of hunger that can be
endured very comfortably, Davy-boy. You know it’s one of Marilla’s
rules that you can’t have anything but bread and butter between meals.”

“Well, gimme a piece then . . . please.”

Davy had been at last taught to say “please,” but he generally tacked
it on as an afterthought. He looked with approval at the generous slice
Anne presently brought to him. “You always put such a nice lot of
butter on it, Anne. Marilla spreads it pretty thin. It slips down a lot
easier when there’s plenty of butter.”

The slice “slipped down” with tolerable ease, judging from its rapid
disappearance. Davy slid head first off the sofa, turned a double
somersault on the rug, and then sat up and announced decidedly,

“Anne, I’ve made up my mind about heaven. I don’t want to go there.”

“Why not?” asked Anne gravely.

“Cause heaven is in Simon Fletcher’s garret, and I don’t like Simon
Fletcher.”