“Heaven in . . . Simon Fletcher’s garret!” gasped Anne, too amazed even
to laugh. “Davy Keith, whatever put such an extraordinary idea into
your head?”

“Milty Boulter says that’s where it is. It was last Sunday in Sunday
School. The lesson was about Elijah and Elisha, and I up and asked Miss
Rogerson where heaven was. Miss Rogerson looked awful offended. She was
cross anyhow, because when she’d asked us what Elijah left Elisha when
he went to heaven Milty Boulter said, ‘His old clo’es,’ and us fellows
all laughed before we thought. I wish you could think first and do
things afterwards, ’cause then you wouldn’t do them. But Milty didn’t
mean to be disrespeckful. He just couldn’t think of the name of the
thing. Miss Rogerson said heaven was where God was and I wasn’t to ask
questions like that. Milty nudged me and said in a whisper, ‘Heaven’s
in Uncle Simon’s garret and I’ll esplain about it on the road home.’ So
when we was coming home he esplained. Milty’s a great hand at
esplaining things. Even if he don’t know anything about a thing he’ll
make up a lot of stuff and so you get it esplained all the same. His
mother is Mrs. Simon’s sister and he went with her to the funeral when
his cousin, Jane Ellen, died. The minister said she’d gone to heaven,
though Milty says she was lying right before them in the coffin. But he
s’posed they carried the coffin to the garret afterwards. Well, when
Milty and his mother went upstairs after it was all over to get her
bonnet he asked her where heaven was that Jane Ellen had gone to, and
she pointed right to the ceiling and said, ‘Up there.’ Milty knew there
wasn’t anything but the garret over the ceiling, so that’s how _he_
found out. And he’s been awful scared to go to his Uncle Simon’s ever
since.”

Anne took Davy on her knee and did her best to straighten out this
theological tangle also. She was much better fitted for the task than
Marilla, for she remembered her own childhood and had an instinctive
understanding of the curious ideas that seven-year-olds sometimes get
about matters that are, of course, very plain and simple to grown up
people. She had just succeeded in convincing Davy that heaven was _not_
in Simon Fletcher’s garret when Marilla came in from the garden, where
she and Dora had been picking peas. Dora was an industrious little soul
and never happier than when “helping” in various small tasks suited to
her chubby fingers. She fed chickens, picked up chips, wiped dishes,
and ran errands galore. She was neat, faithful and observant; she never
had to be told how to do a thing twice and never forgot any of her
little duties. Davy, on the other hand, was rather heedless and
forgetful; but he had the born knack of winning love, and even yet Anne
and Marilla liked him the better.