While Dora proudly shelled the peas and Davy made boats of the pods,
with masts of matches and sails of paper, Anne told Marilla about the
wonderful contents of her letter.

“Oh, Marilla, what do you think? I’ve had a letter from Priscilla and
she says that Mrs. Morgan is on the Island, and that if it is fine
Thursday they are going to drive up to Avonlea and will reach here
about twelve. They will spend the afternoon with us and go to the hotel
at White Sands in the evening, because some of Mrs. Morgan’s American
friends are staying there. Oh, Marilla, isn’t it wonderful? I can
hardly believe I’m not dreaming.”

“I daresay Mrs. Morgan is a lot like other people,” said Marilla drily,
although she did feel a trifle excited herself. Mrs. Morgan was a
famous woman and a visit from her was no commonplace occurrence.
“They’ll be here to dinner, then?”

“Yes; and oh, Marilla, may I cook every bit of the dinner myself? I
want to feel that I can do something for the author of ‘The Rosebud
Garden,’ if it is only to cook a dinner for her. You won’t mind, will
you?”

“Goodness, I’m not so fond of stewing over a hot fire in July that it
would vex me very much to have someone else do it. You’re quite welcome
to the job.”

“Oh, thank you,” said Anne, as if Marilla had just conferred a
tremendous favor, “I’ll make out the menu this very night.”

“You’d better not try to put on too much style,” warned Marilla, a
little alarmed by the high-flown sound of ‘menu.’ “You’ll likely come
to grief if you do.”

“Oh, I’m not going to put on any ‘style,’ if you mean trying to do or
have things we don’t usually have on festal occasions,” assured Anne.
“That would be affectation, and, although I know I haven’t as much
sense and steadiness as a girl of seventeen and a schoolteacher ought
to have, I’m not so silly as _that_. But I want to have everything as
nice and dainty as possible. Davy-boy, don’t leave those peapods on the
back stairs . . . someone might slip on them. I’ll have a light soup to
begin with . . . you know I can make lovely cream-of-onion soup . . .
and then a couple of roast fowls. I’ll have the two white roosters. I
have real affection for those roosters and they’ve been pets ever since
the gray hen hatched out just the two of them . . . little balls of
yellow down. But I know they would have to be sacrificed sometime, and
surely there couldn’t be a worthier occasion than this. But oh,
Marilla, _I_ cannot kill them . . . not even for Mrs. Morgan’s sake.
I’ll have to ask John Henry Carter to come over and do it for me.”