“Indeed you, may” said Anne unselfishly. “And I shall want you to help
me decorate too. I mean to have the parlor simply a _bower_ of blossoms
. . . and the dining table is to be adorned with wild roses. Oh, I do
hope everything will go smoothly. Mrs. Morgan’s heroines _never_ get
into scrapes or are taken at a disadvantage, and they are always so
selfpossessed and such good housekeepers. They seem to be _born_ good
housekeepers. You remember that _Gertrude_ in ‘Edgewood Days’ kept
house for her father when she was only eight years old. When I was
eight years old I hardly knew how to do a thing except bring up
children. Mrs. Morgan must be an authority on girls when she has
written so much about them, and I do want her to have a good opinion of
us. I’ve imagined it all out a dozen different ways . . . what she’ll
look like, and what she’ll say, and what I’ll say. And I’m so anxious
about my nose. There are seven freckles on it, as you can see. They
came at the A.V.I S. picnic, when I went around in the sun without my
hat. I suppose it’s ungrateful of me to worry over them, when I should
be thankful they’re not spread all over my face as they once were; but
I do wish they hadn’t come . . . all Mrs. Morgan’s heroines have such
perfect complexions. I can’t recall a freckled one among them.”

“Yours are not very noticeable,” comforted Diana. “Try a little lemon
juice on them tonight.”

The next day Anne made her pies and lady fingers, did up her muslin
dress, and swept and dusted every room in the house . . . a quite
unnecessary proceeding, for Green Gables was, as usual, in the apple
pie order dear to Marilla’s heart. But Anne felt that a fleck of dust
would be a desecration in a house that was to be honored by a visit
from Charlotte E. Morgan. She even cleaned out the “catch-all” closet
under the stairs, although there was not the remotest possibility of
Mrs. Morgan’s seeing its interior.

“But I want to _feel_ that it is in perfect order, even if she isn’t to
see it,” Anne told Marilla. “You know, in her book ‘Golden Keys,’ she
makes her two heroines _Alice_ and _Louisa_ take for their motto that
verse of Longfellow’s,

‘In the elder days of art
    Builders wrought with greatest care
Each minute and unseen part,
    For the gods see everywhere,’

and so they always kept their cellar stairs scrubbed and never forgot
to sweep under the beds. I should have a guilty conscience if I thought
this closet was in disorder when Mrs. Morgan was in the house. Ever
since we read ‘Golden Keys,’ last April, Diana and I have taken that
verse for our motto too.”