That night John Henry Carter and Davy between them contrived to execute
the two white roosters, and Anne dressed them, the usually distasteful
task glorified in her eyes by the destination of the plump birds.

“I don’t like picking fowls,” she told Marilla, “but isn’t it fortunate
we don’t have to put our souls into what our hands may be doing? I’ve
been picking chickens with my hands but in imagination I’ve been
roaming the Milky Way.”

“I thought you’d scattered more feathers over the floor than usual,”
remarked Marilla.

Then Anne put Davy to bed and made him promise that he would behave
perfectly the next day.

“If I’m as good as good can be all day tomorrow will you let me be just
as bad as I like all the next day?” asked Davy.

“I couldn’t do that,” said Anne discreetly, “but I’ll take you and Dora
for a row in the flat right to the bottom of the pond, and we’ll go
ashore on the sandhills and have a picnic.”

“It’s a bargain,” said Davy. “I’ll be good, you bet. I meant to go over
to Mr. Harrison’s and fire peas from my new popgun at Ginger but
another day’ll do as well. I espect it will be just like Sunday, but a
picnic at the shore’ll make up for _that_.”

XVII
A Chapter of Accidents

Anne woke three times in the night and made pilgrimages to her window
to make sure that Uncle Abe’s prediction was not coming true. Finally
the morning dawned pearly and lustrous in a sky full of silver sheen
and radiance, and the wonderful day had arrived.

Diana appeared soon after breakfast, with a basket of flowers over one
arm and _her_ muslin dress over the other . . . for it would not do to
don it until all the dinner preparations were completed. Meanwhile she
wore her afternoon pink print and a lawn apron fearfully and
wonderfully ruffled and frilled; and very neat and pretty and rosy she
was.

“You look simply sweet,” said Anne admiringly.

Diana sighed.

“But I’ve had to let out every one of my dresses _again_. I weigh four
pounds more than I did in July. Anne, _where_ will this end? Mrs.
Morgan’s heroines are all tall and slender.”

“Well, let’s forget our troubles and think of our mercies,” said Anne
gaily. “Mrs. Allan says that whenever we think of anything that is a
trial to us we should also think of something nice that we can set over
against it. If you are slightly too plump you’ve got the dearest
dimples; and if I have a freckled nose the _shape_ of it is all right.
Do you think the lemon juice did any good?”

“Yes, I really think it did,” said Diana critically; and, much elated,
Anne led the way to the garden, which was full of airy shadows and
wavering golden lights.