“We’ll decorate the parlor first. We have plenty of time, for Priscilla
said they’d be here about twelve or half past at the latest, so we’ll
have dinner at one.”

There may have been two happier and more excited girls somewhere in
Canada or the United States at that moment, but I doubt it. Every snip
of the scissors, as rose and peony and bluebell fell, seemed to chirp,
“Mrs. Morgan is coming today.” Anne wondered how Mr. Harrison _could_
go on placidly mowing hay in the field across the lane, just as if
nothing were going to happen.

The parlor at Green Gables was a rather severe and gloomy apartment,
with rigid horsehair furniture, stiff lace curtains, and white
antimacassars that were always laid at a perfectly correct angle,
except at such times as they clung to unfortunate people’s buttons.
Even Anne had never been able to infuse much grace into it, for Marilla
would not permit any alterations. But it is wonderful what flowers can
accomplish if you give them a fair chance; when Anne and Diana finished
with the room you would not have recognized it.

A great blue bowlful of snowballs overflowed on the polished table. The
shining black mantelpiece was heaped with roses and ferns. Every shelf
of the what-not held a sheaf of bluebells; the dark corners on either
side of the grate were lighted up with jars full of glowing crimson
peonies, and the grate itself was aflame with yellow poppies. All this
splendor and color, mingled with the sunshine falling through the
honeysuckle vines at the windows in a leafy riot of dancing shadows
over walls and floor, made of the usually dismal little room the
veritable “bower” of Anne’s imagination, and even extorted a tribute of
admiration from Marilla, who came in to criticize and remained to
praise.

“Now, we must set the table,” said Anne, in the tone of a priestess
about to perform some sacred rite in honor of a divinity. “We’ll have a
big vaseful of wild roses in the center and one single rose in front of
everybody’s plate—and a special bouquet of rosebuds only by Mrs.
Morgan’s—an allusion to ‘The Rosebud Garden’ you know.”

The table was set in the sitting room, with Marilla’s finest linen and
the best china, glass, and silver. You may be perfectly certain that
every article placed on it was polished or scoured to the highest
possible perfection of gloss and glitter.

Then the girls tripped out to the kitchen, which was filled with
appetizing odors emanating from the oven, where the chickens were
already sizzling splendidly. Anne prepared the potatoes and Diana got
the peas and beans ready. Then, while Diana shut herself into the
pantry to compound the lettuce salad, Anne, whose cheeks were already
beginning to glow crimson, as much with excitement as from the heat of
the fire, prepared the bread sauce for the chickens, minced her onions
for the soup, and finally whipped the cream for her lemon pies.