And what about Davy all this time? Was he redeeming his promise to be
good? He was, indeed. To be sure, he insisted on remaining in the
kitchen, for his curiosity wanted to see all that went on. But as he
sat quietly in a corner, busily engaged in untying the knots in a piece
of herring net he had brought home from his last trip to the shore,
nobody objected to this.

At half past eleven the lettuce salad was made, the golden circles of
the pies were heaped with whipped cream, and everything was sizzling
and bubbling that ought to sizzle and bubble.

“We’d better go and dress now,” said Anne, “for they may be here by
twelve. We must have dinner at sharp one, for the soup must be served
as soon as it’s done.”

Serious indeed were the toilet rites presently performed in the east
gable. Anne peered anxiously at her nose and rejoiced to see that its
freckles were not at all prominent, thanks either to the lemon juice or
to the unusual flush on her cheeks. When they were ready they looked
quite as sweet and trim and girlish as ever did any of “Mrs. Morgan’s
heroines.”

“I do hope I’ll be able to say something once in a while, and not sit
like a mute,” said Diana anxiously. “All Mrs. Morgan’s heroines
converse so beautifully. But I’m afraid I’ll be tongue-tied and stupid.
And I’ll be sure to say ‘I seen.’ I haven’t often said it since Miss
Stacy taught here; but in moments of excitement it’s sure to pop out.
Anne, if I were to say ‘I seen’ before Mrs. Morgan I’d die of
mortification. And it would be almost as bad to have nothing to say.”

“I’m nervous about a good many things,” said Anne, “but I don’t think
there is much fear that I won’t be able to _talk_.”

And, to do her justice, there wasn’t.

Anne shrouded her muslin glories in a big apron and went down to
concoct her soup. Marilla had dressed herself and the twins, and looked
more excited than she had ever been known to look before. At half past
twelve the Allans and Miss Stacy came. Everything was going well but
Anne was beginning to feel nervous. It was surely time for Priscilla
and Mrs. Morgan to arrive. She made frequent trips to the gate and
looked as anxiously down the lane as ever her namesake in the Bluebeard
story peered from the tower casement.

“Suppose they don’t come at all?” she said piteously.

“Don’t suppose it. It would be too mean,” said Diana, who, however, was
beginning to have uncomfortable misgivings on the subject.

“Anne,” said Marilla, coming out from the parlor, “Miss Stacy wants to
see Miss Barry’s willowware platter.”