“Oh, all right,” said Davy, somewhat comforted. “I know Anne’ll save
some nice bones for me, won’t you, Anne? ’Cause you know I didn’t mean
to fall on the pies. Say, Anne, since they _are_ spoiled can’t I take
some of the pieces upstairs with me?”

“No, no lemon pie for you, Master Davy,” said Marilla, pushing him
toward the hall.

“What shall we do for dessert?” asked Anne, looking regretfully at the
wreck and ruin.

“Get out a crock of strawberry preserves,” said Marilla consolingly.
“There’s plenty of whipped cream left in the bowl for it.”

One o’clock came . . . but no Priscilla or Mrs. Morgan. Anne was in an
agony. Everything was done to a turn and the soup was just what soup
should be, but couldn’t be depended on to remain so for any length of
time.

“I don’t believe they’re coming after all,” said Marilla crossly.

Anne and Diana sought comfort in each other’s eyes.

At half past one Marilla again emerged from the parlor.

“Girls, we _must_ have dinner. Everybody is hungry and it’s no use
waiting any longer. Priscilla and Mrs. Morgan are not coming, that’s
plain, and nothing is being improved by waiting.”

Anne and Diana set about lifting the dinner, with all the zest gone out
of the performance.

“I don’t believe I’ll be able to eat a mouthful,” said Diana dolefully.

“Nor I. But I hope everything will be nice for Miss Stacy’s and Mr. and
Mrs. Allan’s sakes,” said Anne listlessly.

When Diana dished the peas she tasted them and a very peculiar
expression crossed her face.

“Anne, did _you_ put sugar in these peas?”

“Yes,” said Anne, mashing the potatoes with the air of one expected to
do her duty. “I put a spoonful of sugar in. We always do. Don’t you
like it?”

“But _I_ put a spoonful in too, when I set them on the stove,” said
Diana.

Anne dropped her masher and tasted the peas also. Then she made a
grimace.

“How awful! I never dreamed you had put sugar in, because I knew your
mother never does. I happened to think of it, for a wonder . . . I’m
always forgetting it . . . so I popped a spoonful in.”

“It’s a case of too many cooks, I guess,” said Marilla, who had
listened to this dialogue with a rather guilty expression. “I didn’t
think you’d remember about the sugar, Anne, for I’m perfectly certain
you never did before . . . so _I_ put in a spoonful.”

The guests in the parlor heard peal after peal of laughter from the
kitchen, but they never knew what the fun was about. There were no
green peas on the dinner table that day, however.

“Well,” said Anne, sobering down again with a sigh of recollection, “we
have the salad anyhow and I don’t think anything has happened to the
beans. Let’s carry the things in and get it over.”