It cannot be said that that dinner was a notable success socially. The
Allans and Miss Stacy exerted themselves to save the situation and
Marilla’s customary placidity was not noticeably ruffled. But Anne and
Diana, between their disappointment and the reaction from their
excitement of the forenoon, could neither talk nor eat. Anne tried
heroically to bear her part in the conversation for the sake of her
guests; but all the sparkle had been quenched in her for the time
being, and, in spite of her love for the Allans and Miss Stacy, she
couldn’t help thinking how nice it would be when everybody had gone
home and she could bury her weariness and disappointment in the pillows
of the east gable.

There is an old proverb that really seems at times to be inspired . . .
“it never rains but it pours.” The measure of that day’s tribulations
was not yet full. Just as Mr. Allan had finished returning thanks there
arose a strange, ominous sound on the stairs, as of some hard, heavy
object bounding from step to step, finishing up with a grand smash at
the bottom. Everybody ran out into the hall. Anne gave a shriek of
dismay.

At the bottom of the stairs lay a big pink conch shell amid the
fragments of what had been Miss Barry’s platter; and at the top of the
stairs knelt a terrified Davy, gazing down with wide-open eyes at the
havoc.

“Davy,” said Marilla ominously, “did you throw that conch down _on
purpose?_”

“No, I never did,” whimpered Davy. “I was just kneeling here, quiet as
quiet, to watch you folks through the bannisters, and my foot struck
that old thing and pushed it off . . . and I’m awful hungry . . . and I
do wish you’d lick a fellow and have done with it, instead of always
sending him upstairs to miss all the fun.”

“Don’t blame Davy,” said Anne, gathering up the fragments with
trembling fingers. “It was my fault. I set that platter there and
forgot all about it. I am properly punished for my carelessness; but
oh, what will Miss Barry say?”

“Well, you know she only bought it, so it isn’t the same as if it was
an heirloom,” said Diana, trying to console.

The guests went away soon after, feeling that it was the most tactful
thing to do, and Anne and Diana washed the dishes, talking less than
they had ever been known to do before. Then Diana went home with a
headache and Anne went with another to the east gable, where she stayed
until Marilla came home from the post office at sunset, with a letter
from Priscilla, written the day before. Mrs. Morgan had sprained her
ankle so severely that she could not leave her room.