“And oh, Anne dear,” wrote Priscilla, “I’m so sorry, but I’m afraid we
won’t get up to Green Gables at all now, for by the time Aunty’s ankle
is well she will have to go back to Toronto. She has to be there by a
certain date.”

“Well,” sighed Anne, laying the letter down on the red sandstone step
of the back porch, where she was sitting, while the twilight rained
down out of a dappled sky, “I always thought it was too good to be true
that Mrs. Morgan should really come. But there . . . that speech sounds
as pessimistic as Miss Eliza Andrews and I’m ashamed of making it.
After all, it was _not_ too good to be true . . . things just as good
and far better are coming true for me all the time. And I suppose the
events of today have a funny side too. Perhaps when Diana and I are old
and gray we shall be able to laugh over them. But I feel that I can’t
expect to do it before then, for it has truly been a bitter
disappointment.”

“You’ll probably have a good many more and worse disappointments than
that before you get through life,” said Marilla, who honestly thought
she was making a comforting speech. “It seems to me, Anne, that you are
never going to outgrow your fashion of setting your heart so on things
and then crashing down into despair because you don’t get them.”

“I know I’m too much inclined that, way” agreed Anne ruefully. “When I
think something nice is going to happen I seem to fly right up on the
wings of anticipation; and then the first thing I realize I drop down
to earth with a thud. But really, Marilla, the flying part _is_
glorious as long as it lasts . . . it’s like soaring through a sunset.
I think it almost pays for the thud.”

“Well, maybe it does,” admitted Marilla. “I’d rather walk calmly along
and do without both flying and thud. But everybody has her own way of
living . . . I used to think there was only one right way . . . but
since I’ve had you and the twins to bring up I don’t feel so sure of
it. What are you going to do about Miss Barry’s platter?”

“Pay her back the twenty dollars she paid for it, I suppose. I’m so
thankful it wasn’t a cherished heirloom because then no money could
replace it.”

“Maybe you could find one like it somewhere and buy it for her.”