“I’m afraid not. Platters as old as that are very scarce. Mrs. Lynde
couldn’t find one anywhere for the supper. I only wish I could, for of
course Miss Barry would just as soon have one platter as another, if
both were equally old and genuine. Marilla, look at that big star over
Mr. Harrison’s maple grove, with all that holy hush of silvery sky
about it. It gives me a feeling that is like a prayer. After all, when
one can see stars and skies like that, little disappointments and
accidents can’t matter so much, can they?”

“Where’s Davy?” said Marilla, with an indifferent glance at the star.

“In bed. I’ve promised to take him and Dora to the shore for a picnic
tomorrow. Of course, the original agreement was that he must be good.
But he _tried_ to be good . . . and I hadn’t the heart to disappoint
him.”

“You’ll drown yourself or the twins, rowing about the pond in that
flat,” grumbled Marilla. “I’ve lived here for sixty years and I’ve
never been on the pond yet.”

“Well, it’s never too late to mend,” said Anne roguishly. “Suppose you
come with us tomorrow. We’ll shut Green Gables up and spend the whole
day at the shore, daffing the world aside.”

“No, thank you,” said Marilla, with indignant emphasis. “I’d be a nice
sight, wouldn’t I, rowing down the pond in a flat? I think I hear
Rachel pronouncing on it. There’s Mr. Harrison driving away somewhere.
Do you suppose there is any truth in the gossip that Mr. Harrison is
going to see Isabella Andrews?”

“No, I’m sure there isn’t. He just called there one evening on business
with Mr. Harmon Andrews and Mrs. Lynde saw him and said she knew he was
courting because he had a white collar on. I don’t believe Mr. Harrison
will ever marry. He seems to have a prejudice against marriage.”

“Well, you can never tell about those old bachelors. And if he had a
white collar on I’d agree with Rachel that it looks suspicious, for I’m
sure he never was seen with one before.”

“I think he only put it on because he wanted to conclude a business
deal with Harmon Andrews,” said Anne. “I’ve heard him say that’s the
only time a man needs to be particular about his appearance, because if
he looks prosperous the party of the second part won’t be so likely to
try to cheat him. I really feel sorry for Mr. Harrison; I don’t believe
he feels satisfied with his life. It must be very lonely to have no one
to care about except a parrot, don’t you think? But I notice Mr.
Harrison doesn’t like to be pitied. Nobody does, I imagine.”

“There’s Gilbert coming up the lane,” said Marilla. “If he wants you to
go for a row on the pond mind you put on your coat and rubbers. There’s
a heavy dew tonight.”

XVIII
An Adventure on the Tory Road