“Anne,” said Davy, sitting up in bed and propping his chin on his
hands, “Anne, where is sleep? People go to sleep every night, and of
course I know it’s the place where I do the things I dream, but I want
to know _where_ it is and how I get there and back without knowing
anything about it . . . and in my nighty too. Where is it?”

Anne was kneeling at the west gable window watching the sunset sky that
was like a great flower with petals of crocus and a heart of fiery
yellow. She turned her head at Davy’s question and answered dreamily,

“‘Over the mountains of the moon,
Down the valley of the shadow.’”

Paul Irving would have known the meaning of this, or made a meaning out
of it for himself, if he didn’t; but practical Davy, who, as Anne often
despairingly remarked, hadn’t a particle of imagination, was only
puzzled and disgusted.

“Anne, I believe you’re just talking nonsense.”

“Of course, I was, dear boy. Don’t you know that it is only very
foolish folk who talk sense all the time?”

“Well, I think you might give a sensible answer when I ask a sensible
question,” said Davy in an injured tone.

“Oh, you are too little to understand,” said Anne. But she felt rather
ashamed of saying it; for had she not, in keen remembrance of many
similar snubs administered in her own early years, solemnly vowed that
she would never tell any child it was too little to understand? Yet
here she was doing it . . . so wide sometimes is the gulf between
theory and practice.

“Well, I’m doing my best to grow,” said Davy, “but it’s a thing you
can’t hurry much. If Marilla wasn’t so stingy with her jam I believe
I’d grow a lot faster.”

“Marilla is not stingy, Davy,” said Anne severely. “It is very
ungrateful of you to say such a thing.”

“There’s another word that means the same thing and sounds a lot
better, but I don’t just remember it,” said Davy, frowning intently. “I
heard Marilla say she was it, herself, the other day.”

“If you mean _economical_, it’s a _very_ different thing from being
stingy. It is an excellent trait in a person if she is economical. If
Marilla had been stingy she wouldn’t have taken you and Dora when your
mother died. Would you have liked to live with Mrs. Wiggins?”

“You just bet I wouldn’t!” Davy was emphatic on that point. “Nor I
don’t want to go out to Uncle Richard neither. I’d far rather live
here, even if Marilla is that long-tailed word when it comes to jam,
’cause _you’re_ here, Anne. Say, Anne, won’t you tell me a story ’fore
I go to sleep? I don’t want a fairy story. They’re all right for girls,
I s’pose, but I want something exciting . . . lots of killing and
shooting in it, and a house on fire, and in’trusting things like that.”