Fortunately for Anne, Marilla called out at this moment from her room.

“Anne, Diana’s signaling at a great rate. You’d better see what she
wants.”

Anne ran to the east gable and saw flashes of light coming through the
twilight from Diana’s window in groups of five, which meant, according
to their old childish code, “Come over at once for I have something
important to reveal.” Anne threw her white shawl over her head and
hastened through the Haunted Wood and across Mr. Bell’s pasture corner
to Orchard Slope.

“I’ve good news for you, Anne,” said Diana. “Mother and I have just got
home from Carmody, and I saw Mary Sentner from Spencer vale in Mr.
Blair’s store. She says the old Copp girls on the Tory Road have a
willow-ware platter and she thinks it’s exactly like the one we had at
the supper. She says they’ll likely sell it, for Martha Copp has never
been known to keep anything she _could_ sell; but if they won’t there’s
a platter at Wesley Keyson’s at Spencervale and she knows they’d sell
it, but she isn’t sure it’s just the same kind as Aunt Josephine’s.”

“I’ll go right over to Spencervale after it tomorrow,” said Anne
resolutely, “and you must come with me. It will be such a weight off my
mind, for I have to go to town day after tomorrow and how can I face
your Aunt Josephine without a willow-ware platter? It would be even
worse than the time I had to confess about jumping on the spare room
bed.”

Both girls laughed over the old memory . . . concerning which, if any
of my readers are ignorant and curious, I must refer them to Anne’s
earlier history.

The next afternoon the girls fared forth on their platter hunting
expedition. It was ten miles to Spencervale and the day was not
especially pleasant for traveling. It was very warm and windless, and
the dust on the road was such as might have been expected after six
weeks of dry weather.

“Oh, I do wish it would rain soon,” sighed Anne. “Everything is so
parched up. The poor fields just seem pitiful to me and the trees seem
to be stretching out their hands pleading for rain. As for my garden,
it hurts me every time I go into it. I suppose I shouldn’t complain
about a garden when the farmers’ crops are suffering so. Mr. Harrison
says his pastures are so scorched up that his poor cows can hardly get
a bite to eat and he feels guilty of cruelty to animals every time he
meets their eyes.”