After a wearisome drive the girls reached Spencervale and turned down
the “Tory” Road . . . a green, solitary highway where the strips of
grass between the wheel tracks bore evidence to lack of travel. Along
most of its extent it was lined with thick-set young spruces crowding
down to the roadway, with here and there a break where the back field
of a Spencervale farm came out to the fence or an expanse of stumps was
aflame with fireweed and goldenrod.

“Why is it called the Tory Road?” asked Anne.

“Mr. Allan says it is on the principle of calling a place a grove
because there are no trees in it,” said Diana, “for nobody lives along
the road except the Copp girls and old Martin Bovyer at the further
end, who is a Liberal. The Tory government ran the road through when
they were in power just to show they were doing something.”

Diana’s father was a Liberal, for which reason she and Anne never
discussed politics. Green Gables folk had always been Conservatives.

Finally the girls came to the old Copp homestead . . . a place of such
exceeding external neatness that even Green Gables would have suffered
by contrast. The house was a very old-fashioned one, situated on a
slope, which fact had necessitated the building of a stone basement
under one end. The house and out-buildings were all whitewashed to a
condition of blinding perfection and not a weed was visible in the prim
kitchen garden surrounded by its white paling.

“The shades are all down,” said Diana ruefully. “I believe that nobody
is home.”

This proved to be the case. The girls looked at each other in
perplexity.

“I don’t know what to do,” said Anne. “If I were sure the platter was
the right kind I would not mind waiting until they came home. But if it
isn’t it may be too late to go to Wesley Keyson’s afterward.”

Diana looked at a certain little square window over the basement.

“That is the pantry window, I feel sure,” she said, “because this house
is just like Uncle Charles’ at Newbridge, and that is their pantry
window. The shade isn’t down, so if we climbed up on the roof of that
little house we could look into the pantry and might be able to see the
platter. Do you think it would be any harm?”

“No, I don’t think so,” decided Anne, after due reflection, “since our
motive is not idle curiosity.”