This important point of ethics being settled, Anne prepared to mount
the aforesaid “little house,” a construction of laths, with a peaked
roof, which had in times past served as a habitation for ducks. The
Copp girls had given up keeping ducks . . . “because they were such
untidy birds”. . . and the house had not been in use for some years,
save as an abode of correction for setting hens. Although scrupulously
whitewashed it had become somewhat shaky, and Anne felt rather dubious
as she scrambled up from the vantage point of a keg placed on a box.

“I’m afraid it won’t bear my weight,” she said as she gingerly stepped
on the roof.

“Lean on the window sill,” advised Diana, and Anne accordingly leaned.
Much to her delight, she saw, as she peered through the pane, a
willow-ware platter, exactly such as she was in quest of, on the shelf
in front of the window. So much she saw before the catastrophe came. In
her joy Anne forgot the precarious nature of her footing, incautiously
ceased to lean on the window sill, gave an impulsive little hop of
pleasure . . . and the next moment she had crashed through the roof up
to her armpits, and there she hung, quite unable to extricate herself.
Diana dashed into the duck house and, seizing her unfortunate friend by
the waist, tried to draw her down.

“Ow . . . don’t,” shrieked poor Anne. “There are some long splinters
sticking into me. See if you can put something under my feet . . . then
perhaps I can draw myself up.”

Diana hastily dragged in the previously mentioned keg and Anne found
that it was just sufficiently high to furnish a secure resting place
for her feet. But she could not release herself.

“Could I pull you out if I crawled up?” suggested Diana.

Anne shook her head hopelessly.

“No . . . the splinters hurt too badly. If you can find an axe you
might chop me out, though. Oh dear, I do really begin to believe that I
_was_ born under an ill-omened star.”

Diana searched faithfully but no axe was to be found.

“I’ll have to go for help,” she said, returning to the prisoner.