“Oh, no,” returned Anne cheerfully. “My head and shoulders are quite
dry and my skirt is only a little damp where the rain beat through the
laths. Don’t pity me, Diana, for I haven’t minded it at all. I kept
thinking how much good the rain will do and how glad my garden must be
for it, and imagining what the flowers and buds would think when the
drops began to fall. I imagined out a most interesting dialogue between
the asters and the sweet peas and the wild canaries in the lilac bush
and the guardian spirit of the garden. When I go home I mean to write
it down. I wish I had a pencil and paper to do it now, because I
daresay I’ll forget the best parts before I reach home.”

Diana the faithful had a pencil and discovered a sheet of wrapping
paper in the box of the buggy. Anne folded up her dripping parasol, put
on her hat, spread the wrapping paper on a shingle Diana handed up, and
wrote out her garden idyl under conditions that could hardly be
considered as favorable to literature. Nevertheless, the result was
quite pretty, and Diana was “enraptured” when Anne read it to her.

“Oh, Anne, it’s sweet . . . just sweet. _Do_ send it to the _Canadian
Woman_.”

Anne shook her head.

“Oh, no, it wouldn’t be suitable at all. There is no _plot_ in it, you
see. It’s just a string of fancies. I like writing such things, but of
course nothing of the sort would ever do for publication, for editors
insist on plots, so Priscilla says. Oh, there’s Miss Sarah Copp now.
_Please_, Diana, go and explain.”

Miss Sarah Copp was a small person, garbed in shabby black, with a hat
chosen less for vain adornment than for qualities that would wear well.
She looked as amazed as might be expected on seeing the curious tableau
in her yard, but when she heard Diana’s explanation she was all
sympathy. She hurriedly unlocked the back door, produced the axe, and
with a few skillfull blows set Anne free. The latter, somewhat tired
and stiff, ducked down into the interior of her prison and thankfully
emerged into liberty once more.

“Miss Copp,” she said earnestly. “I assure you I looked into your
pantry window _only_ to discover if you had a willow-ware platter. I
didn’t see anything else—I didn’t _look_ for anything else.”