“Bless you, that’s all right,” said Miss Sarah amiably. “You needn’t
worry—there’s no harm done. Thank goodness, we Copps keep our pantries
presentable at all times and don’t care who sees into them. As for that
old duckhouse, I’m glad it’s smashed, for maybe now Martha will agree
to having it taken down. She never would before for fear it might come
in handy sometime and I’ve had to whitewash it every spring. But you
might as well argue with a post as with Martha. She went to town
today—I drove her to the station. And you want to buy my platter. Well,
what will you give for it?”

“Twenty dollars,” said Anne, who was never meant to match business wits
with a Copp, or she would not have offered her price at the start.

“Well, I’ll see,” said Miss Sarah cautiously. “That platter is mine
fortunately, or I’d never dare to sell it when Martha wasn’t here. As
it is, I daresay she’ll raise a fuss. Martha’s the boss of this
establishment I can tell you. I’m getting awful tired of living under
another woman’s thumb. But come in, come in. You must be real tired and
hungry. I’ll do the best I can for you in the way of tea but I warn you
not to expect anything but bread and butter and some cowcumbers. Martha
locked up all the cake and cheese and preserves afore she went. She
always does, because she says I’m too extravagant with them if company
comes.”

The girls were hungry enough to do justice to any fare, and they
enjoyed Miss Sarah’s excellent bread and butter and “cowcumbers”
thoroughly. When the meal was over Miss Sarah said,

“I don’t know as I mind selling the platter. But it’s worth twenty-five
dollars. It’s a very old platter.”

Diana gave Anne’s foot a gentle kick under the table, meaning, “Don’t
agree—she’ll let it go for twenty if you hold out.” But Anne was not
minded to take any chances in regard to that precious platter. She
promptly agreed to give twenty-five and Miss Sarah looked as if she
felt sorry she hadn’t asked for thirty.

“Well, I guess you may have it. I want all the money I can scare up
just now. The fact is—” Miss Sarah threw up her head importantly, with
a proud flush on her thin cheeks—“I’m going to be married—to Luther
Wallace. He wanted me twenty years ago. I liked him real well but he
was poor then and father packed him off. I s’pose I shouldn’t have let
him go so meek but I was timid and frightened of father. Besides, I
didn’t know men were so skurse.”

When the girls were safely away, Diana driving and Anne holding the
coveted platter carefully on her lap, the green, rain-freshened
solitudes of the Tory Road were enlivened by ripples of girlish
laughter.