“I’ll amuse your Aunt Josephine with the ‘strange eventful history’ of
this afternoon when I go to town tomorrow. We’ve had a rather trying
time but it’s over now. I’ve got the platter, and that rain has laid
the dust beautifully. So ‘all’s well that ends well.’”

“We’re not home yet,” said Diana rather pessimistically, “and there’s
no telling what may happen before we are. You’re such a girl to have
adventures, Anne.”

“Having adventures comes natural to some people,” said Anne serenely.
“You just have a gift for them or you haven’t.”

XIX
Just a Happy Day

“After all,” Anne had said to Marilla once, “I believe the nicest and
sweetest days are not those on which anything very splendid or
wonderful or exciting happens but just those that bring simple little
pleasures, following one another softly, like pearls slipping off a
string.”

Life at Green Gables was full of just such days, for Anne’s adventures
and misadventures, like those of other people, did not all happen at
once, but were sprinkled over the year, with long stretches of
harmless, happy days between, filled with work and dreams and laughter
and lessons. Such a day came late in August. In the forenoon Anne and
Diana rowed the delighted twins down the pond to the sandshore to pick
“sweet grass” and paddle in the surf, over which the wind was harping
an old lyric learned when the world was young.

In the afternoon Anne walked down to the old Irving place to see Paul.
She found him stretched out on the grassy bank beside the thick fir
grove that sheltered the house on the north, absorbed in a book of
fairy tales. He sprang up radiantly at sight of her.

“Oh, I’m so glad you’ve come, teacher,” he said eagerly, “because
Grandma’s away. You’ll stay and have tea with me, won’t you? It’s so
lonesome to have tea all by oneself. _You_ know, teacher. I’ve had
serious thoughts of asking Young Mary Joe to sit down and eat her tea
with me, but I expect Grandma wouldn’t approve. She says the French
have to be kept in their place. And anyhow, it’s difficult to talk with
Young Mary Joe. She just laughs and says, ‘Well, yous do beat all de
kids I ever knowed.’ That isn’t my idea of conversation.”

“Of course I’ll stay to tea,” said Anne gaily. “I was dying to be
asked. My mouth has been watering for some more of your grandma’s
delicious shortbread ever since I had tea here before.”

Paul looked very sober.