“If it depended on me, teacher,” he said, standing before Anne with his
hands in his pockets and his beautiful little face shadowed with sudden
care, “You should have shortbread with a right good will. But it
depends on Mary Joe. I heard Grandma tell her before she left that she
wasn’t to give me any shortcake because it was too rich for little
boys’ stomachs. But maybe Mary Joe will cut some for you if I promise I
won’t eat any. Let us hope for the best.”

“Yes, let us,” agreed Anne, whom this cheerful philosophy suited
exactly, “and if Mary Joe proves hard-hearted and won’t give me any
shortbread it doesn’t matter in the least, so you are not to worry over
that.”

“You’re sure you won’t mind if she doesn’t?” said Paul anxiously.

“Perfectly sure, dear heart.”

“Then I won’t worry,” said Paul, with a long breath of relief,
“especially as I really think Mary Joe will listen to reason. She’s not
a naturally unreasonable person, but she has learned by experience that
it doesn’t do to disobey Grandma’s orders. Grandma is an excellent
woman but people must do as she tells them. She was very much pleased
with me this morning because I managed at last to eat all my plateful
of porridge. It was a great effort but I succeeded. Grandma says she
thinks she’ll make a man of me yet. But, teacher, I want to ask you a
very important question. You will answer it truthfully, won’t you?”

“I’ll try,” promised Anne.

“Do you think I’m wrong in my upper story?” asked Paul, as if his very
existence depended on her reply.

“Goodness, no, Paul,” exclaimed Anne in amazement. “Certainly you’re
not. What put such an idea into your head?”

“Mary Joe . . . but she didn’t know I heard her. Mrs. Peter Sloane’s
hired girl, Veronica, came to see Mary Joe last evening and I heard
them talking in the kitchen as I was going through the hall. I heard
Mary Joe say, ‘Dat Paul, he is de queeres’ leetle boy. He talks dat
queer. I tink dere’s someting wrong in his upper story.’ I couldn’t
sleep last night for ever so long, thinking of it, and wondering if
Mary Joe was right. I couldn’t bear to ask Grandma about it somehow,
but I made up my mind I’d ask you. I’m so glad you think I’m all right
in my upper story.”

“Of course you are. Mary Joe is a silly, ignorant girl, and you are
never to worry about anything she says,” said Anne indignantly,
secretly resolving to give Mrs. Irving a discreet hint as to the
advisability of restraining Mary Joe’s tongue.

“Well, that’s a weight off my mind,” said Paul. “I’m perfectly happy
now, teacher, thanks to you. It wouldn’t be nice to have something
wrong in your upper story, would it, teacher? I suppose the reason Mary
Joe imagines I have is because I tell her what I think about things
sometimes.”