“Speaking of marrying, reminds me of another thing that has been
troubling me of late,” continued Paul. “Mrs. Lynde was down here one
day last week having tea with Grandma, and Grandma made me show her my
little mother’s picture . . . the one father sent me for my birthday
present. I didn’t exactly want to show it to Mrs. Lynde. Mrs. Lynde is
a good, kind woman, but she isn’t the sort of person you want to show
your mother’s picture to. _You_ know, teacher. But of course I obeyed
Grandma. Mrs. Lynde said she was very pretty but kind of actressy
looking, and must have been an awful lot younger than father. Then she
said, ‘Some of these days your pa will be marrying again likely. How
will you like to have a new ma, Master Paul?’ Well, the idea almost
took my breath away, teacher, but I wasn’t going to let Mrs. Lynde see
_that_. I just looked her straight in the face . . . like this . . .
and I said, ‘Mrs. Lynde, father made a pretty good job of picking out
my first mother and I could trust him to pick out just as good a one
the second time.’ And I _can_ trust him, teacher. But still, I hope, if
he ever does give me a new mother, he’ll ask my opinion about her
before it’s too late. There’s Mary Joe coming to call us to tea. I’ll
go and consult with her about the shortbread.”

As a result of the “consultation,” Mary Joe cut the shortbread and
added a dish of preserves to the bill of fare. Anne poured the tea and
she and Paul had a very merry meal in the dim old sitting room whose
windows were open to the gulf breezes, and they talked so much
“nonsense” that Mary Joe was quite scandalized and told Veronica the
next evening that “de school mees” was as queer as Paul. After tea Paul
took Anne up to his room to show her his mother’s picture, which had
been the mysterious birthday present kept by Mrs. Irving in the
bookcase. Paul’s little low-ceilinged room was a soft whirl of ruddy
light from the sun that was setting over the sea and swinging shadows
from the fir trees that grew close to the square, deep-set window. From
out this soft glow and glamor shone a sweet, girlish face, with tender
mother eyes, that was hanging on the wall at the foot of the bed.

“That’s my little mother,” said Paul with loving pride. “I got Grandma
to hang it there where I’d see it as soon as I opened my eyes in the
morning. I never mind not having the light when I go to bed now,
because it just seems as if my little mother was right here with me.
Father knew just what I would like for a birthday present, although he
never asked me. Isn’t it wonderful how much fathers _do_ know?”