“Your mother was very lovely, Paul, and you look a little like her. But
her eyes and hair are darker than yours.”

“My eyes are the same color as father’s,” said Paul, flying about the
room to heap all available cushions on the window seat, “but father’s
hair is gray. He has lots of it, but it is gray. You see, father is
nearly fifty. That’s ripe old age, isn’t it? But it’s only _outside_
he’s old. _Inside_ he’s just as young as anybody. Now, teacher, please
sit here; and I’ll sit at your feet. May I lay my head against your
knee? That’s the way my little mother and I used to sit. Oh, this is
real splendid, I think.”

“Now, I want to hear those thoughts which Mary Joe pronounces so
queer,” said Anne, patting the mop of curls at her side. Paul never
needed any coaxing to tell his thoughts . . . at least, to congenial
souls.

“I thought them out in the fir grove one night,” he said dreamily. “Of
course I didn’t _believe_ them but I _thought_ them. _You_ know,
teacher. And then I wanted to tell them to somebody and there was
nobody but Mary Joe. Mary Joe was in the pantry setting bread and I sat
down on the bench beside her and I said, ‘Mary Joe, do you know what I
think? I think the evening star is a lighthouse on the land where the
fairies dwell.’ And Mary Joe said, ‘Well, yous are de queer one. Dare
ain’t no such ting as fairies.’ I was very much provoked. Of course, I
knew there are no fairies; but that needn’t prevent my thinking there
is. _You_ know, teacher. But I tried again quite patiently. I said,
‘Well then, Mary Joe, do you know what I think? I think an angel walks
over the world after the sun sets . . . a great, tall, white angel,
with silvery folded wings . . . and sings the flowers and birds to
sleep. Children can hear him if they know how to listen.’ Then Mary Joe
held up her hands all over flour and said, ‘Well, yous are de queer
leetle boy. Yous make me feel scare.’ And she really did looked scared.
I went out then and whispered the rest of my thoughts to the garden.
There was a little birch tree in the garden and it died. Grandma says
the salt spray killed it; but I think the dryad belonging to it was a
foolish dryad who wandered away to see the world and got lost. And the
little tree was so lonely it died of a broken heart.”

“And when the poor, foolish little dryad gets tired of the world and
comes back to her tree _her_ heart will break,” said Anne.