“Yes; but if dryads are foolish they must take the consequences, just
as if they were real people,” said Paul gravely. “Do you know what I
think about the new moon, teacher? I think it is a little golden boat
full of dreams.”

“And when it tips on a cloud some of them spill out and fall into your
sleep.”

“Exactly, teacher. Oh, you _do_ know. And I think the violets are
little snips of the sky that fell down when the angels cut out holes
for the stars to shine through. And the buttercups are made out of old
sunshine; and I think the sweet peas will be butterflies when they go
to heaven. Now, teacher, do you see anything so very queer about those
thoughts?”

“No, laddie dear, they are not queer at all; they are strange and
beautiful thoughts for a little boy to think, and so people who
couldn’t think anything of the sort themselves, if they tried for a
hundred years, think them queer. But keep on thinking them, Paul . . .
some day you are going to be a poet, I believe.”

When Anne reached home she found a very different type of boyhood
waiting to be put to bed. Davy was sulky; and when Anne had undressed
him he bounced into bed and buried his face in the pillow.

“Davy, you have forgotten to say your prayers,” said Anne rebukingly.

“No, I didn’t forget,” said Davy defiantly, “but I ain’t going to say
my prayers any more. I’m going to give up trying to be good, ’cause no
matter how good I am you’d like Paul Irving better. So I might as well
be bad and have the fun of it.”

“I don’t like Paul Irving _better_,” said Anne seriously. “I like you
just as well, only in a different way.”

“But I want you to like me the same way,” pouted Davy.

“You can’t like different people the same way. You don’t like Dora and
me the same way, do you?”

Davy sat up and reflected.

“No . . . o . . . o,” he admitted at last, “I like Dora because she’s
my sister but I like you because you’re _you_.”

“And I like Paul because he is Paul and Davy because he is Davy,” said
Anne gaily.

“Well, I kind of wish I’d said my prayers then,” said Davy, convinced
by this logic. “But it’s too much bother getting out now to say them.
I’ll say them twice over in the morning, Anne. Won’t that do as well?”

No, Anne was positive it would not do as well. So Davy scrambled out
and knelt down at her knee. When he had finished his devotions he
leaned back on his little, bare, brown heels and looked up at her.

“Anne, I’m gooder than I used to be.”

“Yes, indeed you are, Davy,” said Anne, who never hesitated to give
credit where credit was due.