Gilbert stretched himself out on the ferns beside the Bubble and looked
approvingly at Anne. If Gilbert had been asked to describe his ideal
woman the description would have answered point for point to Anne, even
to those seven tiny freckles whose obnoxious presence still continued
to vex her soul. Gilbert was as yet little more than a boy; but a boy
has his dreams as have others, and in Gilbert’s future there was always
a girl with big, limpid gray eyes, and a face as fine and delicate as a
flower. He had made up his mind, also, that his future must be worthy
of its goddess. Even in quiet Avonlea there were temptations to be met
and faced. White Sands youth were a rather “fast” set, and Gilbert was
popular wherever he went. But he meant to keep himself worthy of Anne’s
friendship and perhaps some distant day her love; and he watched over
word and thought and deed as jealously as if her clear eyes were to
pass in judgment on it. She held over him the unconscious influence
that every girl, whose ideals are high and pure, wields over her
friends; an influence which would endure as long as she was faithful to
those ideals and which she would as certainly lose if she were ever
false to them. In Gilbert’s eyes Anne’s greatest charm was the fact
that she never stooped to the petty practices of so many of the Avonlea
girls—the small jealousies, the little deceits and rivalries, the
palpable bids for favor. Anne held herself apart from all this, not
consciously or of design, but simply because anything of the sort was
utterly foreign to her transparent, impulsive nature, crystal clear in
its motives and aspirations.

But Gilbert did not attempt to put his thoughts into words, for he had
already too good reason to know that Anne would mercilessly and
frostily nip all attempts at sentiment in the bud—or laugh at him,
which was ten times worse.

“You look like a real dryad under that birch tree,” he said teasingly.

“I love birch trees,” said Anne, laying her cheek against the creamy
satin of the slim bole, with one of the pretty, caressing gestures that
came so natural to her.