“Then you’ll be glad to hear that Mr. Major Spencer has decided to set
out a row of white birches all along the road front of his farm, by way
of encouraging the A.V.I.S.,” said Gilbert. “He was talking to me about
it today. Major Spencer is the most progressive and public-spirited man
in Avonlea. And Mr. William Bell is going to set out a spruce hedge
along his road front and up his lane. Our Society is getting on
splendidly, Anne. It is past the experimental stage and is an accepted
fact. The older folks are beginning to take an interest in it and the
White Sands people are talking of starting one too. Even Elisha Wright
has come around since that day the Americans from the hotel had the
picnic at the shore. They praised our roadsides so highly and said they
were so much prettier than in any other part of the Island. And when,
in due time, the other farmers follow Mr. Spencer’s good example and
plant ornamental trees and hedges along their road fronts Avonlea will
be the prettiest settlement in the province.”

“The Aids are talking of taking up the graveyard,” said Anne, “and I
hope they will, because there will have to be a subscription for that,
and it would be no use for the Society to try it after the hall affair.
But the Aids would never have stirred in the matter if the Society
hadn’t put it into their thoughts unofficially. Those trees we planted
on the church grounds are flourishing, and the trustees have promised
me that they will fence in the school grounds next year. If they do
I’ll have an arbor day and every scholar shall plant a tree; and we’ll
have a garden in the corner by the road.”

“We’ve succeeded in almost all our plans so far, except in getting the
old Boulter house removed,” said Gilbert, “and I’ve given _that_ up in
despair. Levi won’t have it taken down just to vex us. There’s a
contrary streak in all the Boulters and it’s strongly developed in
him.”

“Julia Bell wants to send another committee to him, but I think the
better way will just be to leave him severely alone,” said Anne sagely.

“And trust to Providence, as Mrs. Lynde says,” smiled Gilbert.
“Certainly, no more committees. They only aggravate him. Julia Bell
thinks you can do anything, if you only have a committee to attempt it.
Next spring, Anne, we must start an agitation for nice lawns and
grounds. We’ll sow good seed betimes this winter. I’ve a treatise here
on lawns and lawnmaking and I’m going to prepare a paper on the subject
soon. Well, I suppose our vacation is almost over. School opens Monday.
Has Ruby Gillis got the Carmody school?”