“Yes; Priscilla wrote that she had taken her own home school, so the
Carmody trustees gave it to Ruby. I’m sorry Priscilla is not coming
back, but since she can’t I’m glad Ruby has got the school. She will be
home for Saturdays and it will seem like old times, to have her and
Jane and Diana and myself all together again.”

Marilla, just home from Mrs. Lynde’s, was sitting on the back porch
step when Anne returned to the house.

“Rachel and I have decided to have our cruise to town tomorrow,” she
said. “Mr. Lynde is feeling better this week and Rachel wants to go
before he has another sick spell.”

“I intend to get up extra early tomorrow morning, for I’ve ever so much
to do,” said Anne virtuously. “For one thing, I’m going to shift the
feathers from my old bedtick to the new one. I ought to have done it
long ago but I’ve just kept putting it off . . . it’s such a detestable
task. It’s a very bad habit to put off disagreeable things, and I never
mean to again, or else I can’t comfortably tell my pupils not to do it.
That would be inconsistent. Then I want to make a cake for Mr. Harrison
and finish my paper on gardens for the A.V.I.S., and write Stella, and
wash and starch my muslin dress, and make Dora’s new apron.”

“You won’t get half done,” said Marilla pessimistically. “I never yet
planned to do a lot of things but something happened to prevent me.”

XX
The Way It Often Happens

Anne rose betimes the next morning and blithely greeted the fresh day,
when the banners of the sunrise were shaken triumphantly across the
pearly skies. Green Gables lay in a pool of sunshine, flecked with the
dancing shadows of poplar and willow. Beyond the land was Mr.
Harrison’s wheatfield, a great, windrippled expanse of pale gold. The
world was so beautiful that Anne spent ten blissful minutes hanging
idly over the garden gate drinking the loveliness in.

After breakfast Marilla made ready for her journey. Dora was to go with
her, having been long promised this treat.

“Now, Davy, you try to be a good boy and don’t bother Anne,” she
straitly charged him. “If you are good I’ll bring you a striped candy
cane from town.”

For alas, Marilla had stooped to the evil habit of bribing people to be
good!

“I won’t be bad on purpose, but s’posen I’m bad zacksidentally?” Davy
wanted to know.

“You’ll have to guard against accidents,” admonished Marilla. “Anne, if
Mr. Shearer comes today get a nice roast and some steak. If he doesn’t
you’ll have to kill a fowl for dinner tomorrow.”

Anne nodded.

“I’m not going to bother cooking any dinner for just Davy and myself
today,” she said. “That cold ham bone will do for noon lunch and I’ll
have some steak fried for you when you come home at night.”