Anne, left alone in her glory, worked with a will. The floor was swept,
the beds made, the hens fed, the muslin dress washed and hung out on
the line. Then Anne prepared for the transfer of feathers. She mounted
to the garret and donned the first old dress that came to hand . . . a
navy blue cashmere she had worn at fourteen. It was decidedly on the
short side and as “skimpy” as the notable wincey Anne had worn upon the
occasion of her debut at Green Gables; but at least it would not be
materially injured by down and feathers. Anne completed her toilet by
tying a big red and white spotted handkerchief that had belonged to
Matthew over her head, and, thus accoutred, betook herself to the
kitchen chamber, whither Marilla, before her departure, had helped her
carry the feather bed.

A cracked mirror hung by the chamber window and in an unlucky moment
Anne looked into it. There were those seven freckles on her nose, more
rampant than ever, or so it seemed in the glare of light from the
unshaded window.

“Oh, I forgot to rub that lotion on last night,” she thought. “I’d
better run down to the pantry and do it now.”

Anne had already suffered many things trying to remove those freckles.
On one occasion the entire skin had peeled off her nose but the
freckles remained. A few days previously she had found a recipe for a
freckle lotion in a magazine and, as the ingredients were within her
reach, she straightway compounded it, much to the disgust of Marilla,
who thought that if Providence had placed freckles on your nose it was
your bounden duty to leave them there.

Anne scurried down to the pantry, which, always dim from the big willow
growing close to the window, was now almost dark by reason of the shade
drawn to exclude flies. Anne caught the bottle containing the lotion
from the shelf and copiously anointed her nose therewith by means of a
little sponge sacred to the purpose. This important duty done, she
returned to her work. Any one who has ever shifted feathers from one
tick to another will not need to be told that when Anne finished she
was a sight to behold. Her dress was white with down and fluff, and her
front hair, escaping from under the handkerchief, was adorned with a
veritable halo of feathers. At this auspicious moment a knock sounded
at the kitchen door.

“That must be Mr. Shearer,” thought Anne. “I’m in a dreadful mess but
I’ll have to run down as I am, for he’s always in a hurry.”