Down flew Anne to the kitchen door. If ever a charitable floor did open
to swallow up a miserable, befeathered damsel the Green Gables porch
floor should promptly have engulfed Anne at that moment. On the
doorstep were standing Priscilla Grant, golden and fair in silk attire,
a short, stout gray-haired lady in a tweed suit, and another lady, tall
stately, wonderfully gowned, with a beautiful, highbred face and large,
black-lashed violet eyes, whom Anne “instinctively felt,” as she would
have said in her earlier days, to be Mrs. Charlotte E. Morgan.

In the dismay of the moment one thought stood out from the confusion of
Anne’s mind and she grasped at it as at the proverbial straw. All Mrs.
Morgan’s heroines were noted for “rising to the occasion.” No matter
what their troubles were, they invariably rose to the occasion and
showed their superiority over all ills of time, space, and quantity.
Anne therefore felt it was _her_ duty to rise to the occasion and she
did it, so perfectly that Priscilla afterward declared she never
admired Anne Shirley more than at that moment. No matter what her
outraged feelings were she did not show them. She greeted Priscilla and
was introduced to her companions as calmly and composedly as if she had
been arrayed in purple and fine linen. To be sure, it was somewhat of a
shock to find that the lady she had instinctively felt to be Mrs.
Morgan was not Mrs. Morgan at all, but an unknown Mrs. Pendexter, while
the stout little gray-haired woman was Mrs. Morgan; but in the greater
shock the lesser lost its power. Anne ushered her guests to the spare
room and thence into the parlor, where she left them while she hastened
out to help Priscilla unharness her horse.

“It’s dreadful to come upon you so unexpectedly as this,” apologized
Priscilla, “but I did not know till last night that we were coming.
Aunt Charlotte is going away Monday and she had promised to spend today
with a friend in town. But last night her friend telephoned to her not
to come because they were quarantined for scarlet fever. So I suggested
we come here instead, for I knew you were longing to see her. We called
at the White Sands Hotel and brought Mrs. Pendexter with us. She is a
friend of aunt’s and lives in New York and her husband is a
millionaire. We can’t stay very long, for Mrs. Pendexter has to be back
at the hotel by five o’clock.”

Several times while they were putting away the horse Anne caught
Priscilla looking at her in a furtive, puzzled way.

“She needn’t stare at me so,” Anne thought a little resentfully. “If
she doesn’t _know_ what it is to change a feather bed she might
_imagine_ it.”

When Priscilla had gone to the parlor, and before Anne could escape
upstairs, Diana walked into the kitchen. Anne caught her astonished
friend by the arm.