“Diana Barry, who do you suppose is in that parlor at this very moment?
Mrs. Charlotte E. Morgan . . . and a New York millionaire’s wife . . .
and here I am like _this_ . . . and _not a thing in the house for
dinner but a cold ham bone_, Diana!”

By this time Anne had become aware that Diana was staring at her in
precisely the same bewildered fashion as Priscilla had done. It was
really too much.

“Oh, Diana, don’t look at me so,” she implored. “_You_, at least, must
know that the neatest person in the world couldn’t empty feathers from
one tick into another and remain neat in the process.”

“It . . . it . . . isn’t the feathers,” hesitated Diana. “It’s . . .
it’s . . . your nose, Anne.”

“My nose? Oh, Diana, surely nothing has gone wrong with it!”

Anne rushed to the little looking glass over the sink. One glance
revealed the fatal truth. Her nose was a brilliant scarlet!

Anne sat down on the sofa, her dauntless spirit subdued at last.

“What is the matter with it?” asked Diana, curiosity overcoming
delicacy.

“I thought I was rubbing my freckle lotion on it, but I must have used
that red dye Marilla has for marking the pattern on her rugs,” was the
despairing response. “What shall I do?”

“Wash it off,” said Diana practically.

“Perhaps it won’t wash off. First I dye my hair; then I dye my nose.
Marilla cut my hair off when I dyed it but that remedy would hardly be
practicable in this case. Well, this is another punishment for vanity
and I suppose I deserve it . . . though there’s not much comfort in
_that_. It is really almost enough to make one believe in ill-luck,
though Mrs. Lynde says there is no such thing, because everything is
foreordained.”

Fortunately the dye washed off easily and Anne, somewhat consoled,
betook herself to the east gable while Diana ran home. Presently Anne
came down again, clothed and in her right mind. The muslin dress she
had fondly hoped to wear was bobbing merrily about on the line outside,
so she was forced to content herself with her black lawn. She had the
fire on and the tea steeping when Diana returned; the latter wore _her_
muslin, at least, and carried a covered platter in her hand.

“Mother sent you this,” she said, lifting the cover and displaying a
nicely carved and jointed chicken to Anne’s greatful eyes.

The chicken was supplemented by light new bread, excellent butter and
cheese, Marilla’s fruit cake and a dish of preserved plums, floating in
their golden syrup as in congealed summer sunshine. There was a big
bowlful of pink-and-white asters also, by way of decoration; yet the
spread seemed very meager beside the elaborate one formerly prepared
for Mrs. Morgan.