Anne’s hungry guests, however, did not seem to think anything was
lacking and they ate the simple viands with apparent enjoyment. But
after the first few moments Anne thought no more of what was or was not
on her bill of fare. Mrs. Morgan’s appearance might be somewhat
disappointing, as even her loyal worshippers had been forced to admit
to each other; but she proved to be a delightful conversationalist. She
had traveled extensively and was an excellent storyteller. She had seen
much of men and women, and crystalized her experiences into witty
little sentences and epigrams which made her hearers feel as if they
were listening to one of the people in clever books. But under all her
sparkle there was a strongly felt undercurrent of true, womanly
sympathy and kindheartedness which won affection as easily as her
brilliancy won admiration. Nor did she monopolize the conversation. She
could draw others out as skillfully and fully as she could talk
herself, and Anne and Diana found themselves chattering freely to her.
Mrs. Pendexter said little; she merely smiled with her lovely eyes and
lips, and ate chicken and fruit cake and preserves with such exquisite
grace that she conveyed the impression of dining on ambrosia and
honeydew. But then, as Anne said to Diana later on, anybody so divinely
beautiful as Mrs. Pendexter didn’t need to talk; it was enough for her
just to _look_.

After dinner they all had a walk through Lover’s Lane and Violet Vale
and the Birch Path, then back through the Haunted Wood to the Dryad’s
Bubble, where they sat down and talked for a delightful last half hour.
Mrs. Morgan wanted to know how the Haunted Wood came by its name, and
laughed until she cried when she heard the story and Anne’s dramatic
account of a certain memorable walk through it at the witching hour of
twilight.

“It has indeed been a feast of reason and flow of soul, hasn’t it?”
said Anne, when her guests had gone and she and Diana were alone again.
“I don’t know which I enjoyed more . . . listening to Mrs. Morgan or
gazing at Mrs. Pendexter. I believe we had a nicer time than if we’d
known they were coming and been cumbered with much serving. You must
stay to tea with me, Diana, and we’ll talk it all over.”

“Priscilla says Mrs. Pendexter’s husband’s sister is married to an
English earl; and yet she took a second helping of the plum preserves,”
said Diana, as if the two facts were somehow incompatible.

“I daresay even the English earl himself wouldn’t have turned up his
aristocratic nose at Marilla’s plum preserves,” said Anne proudly.

Anne did not mention the misfortune which had befallen _her_ nose when
she related the day’s history to Marilla that evening. But she took the
bottle of freckle lotion and emptied it out of the window.