“I shall never try any beautifying messes again,” she said, darkly
resolute. “They may do for careful, deliberate people; but for anyone
so hopelessly given over to making mistakes as I seem to be it’s
tempting fate to meddle with them.”

XXI
Sweet Miss Lavendar

School opened and Anne returned to her work, with fewer theories but
considerably more experience. She had several new pupils, six- and
seven-year-olds just venturing, round-eyed, into a world of wonder.
Among them were Davy and Dora. Davy sat with Milty Boulter, who had
been going to school for a year and was therefore quite a man of the
world. Dora had made a compact at Sunday School the previous Sunday to
sit with Lily Sloane; but Lily Sloane not coming the first day, she was
temporarily assigned to Mirabel Cotton, who was ten years old and
therefore, in Dora’s eyes, one of the “big girls.”

“I think school is great fun,” Davy told Marilla when he got home that
night. “You said I’d find it hard to sit still and I did . . . you
mostly do tell the truth, I notice . . . but you can wriggle your legs
about under the desk and that helps a lot. It’s splendid to have so
many boys to play with. I sit with Milty Boulter and he’s fine. He’s
longer than me but I’m wider. It’s nicer to sit in the back seats but
you can’t sit there till your legs grow long enough to touch the floor.
Milty drawed a picture of Anne on his slate and it was awful ugly and I
told him if he made pictures of Anne like that I’d lick him at recess.
I thought first I’d draw one of him and put horns and a tail on it, but
I was afraid it would hurt his feelings, and Anne says you should never
hurt anyone’s feelings. It seems it’s dreadful to have your feelings
hurt. It’s better to knock a boy down than hurt his feelings if you
_must_ do something. Milty said he wasn’t scared of me but he’d just as
soon call it somebody else to ‘blige me, so he rubbed out Anne’s name
and printed Barbara Shaw’s under it. Milty doesn’t like Barbara ’cause
she calls him a sweet little boy and once she patted him on his head.”

Dora said primly that she liked school; but she was very quiet, even
for her; and when at twilight Marilla bade her go upstairs to bed she
hesitated and began to cry.

“I’m . . . I’m frightened,” she sobbed. “I . . . I don’t want to go
upstairs alone in the dark.”

“What notion have you got into your head now?” demanded Marilla. “I’m
sure you’ve gone to bed alone all summer and never been frightened
before.”

Dora still continued to cry, so Anne picked her up, cuddled her
sympathetically, and whispered,

“Tell Anne all about it, sweetheart. What are you frightened of?”