“Of . . . of Mirabel Cotton’s uncle,” sobbed Dora. “Mirabel Cotton told
me all about her family today in school. Nearly everybody in her family
has died . . . all her grandfathers and grandmothers and ever so many
uncles and aunts. They have a habit of dying, Mirabel says. Mirabel’s
awful proud of having so many dead relations, and she told me what they
all died of, and what they said, and how they looked in their coffins.
And Mirabel says one of her uncles was seen walking around the house
after he was buried. Her mother saw him. I don’t mind the rest so much
but I can’t help thinking about that uncle.”

Anne went upstairs with Dora and sat by her until she fell asleep. The
next day Mirabel Cotton was kept in at recess and “gently but firmly”
given to understand that when you were so unfortunate as to possess an
uncle who persisted in walking about houses after he had been decently
interred it was not in good taste to talk about that eccentric
gentleman to your deskmate of tender years. Mirabel thought this very
harsh. The Cottons had not much to boast of. How was she to keep up her
prestige among her schoolmates if she were forbidden to make capital
out of the family ghost?

September slipped by into a gold and crimson graciousness of October.
One Friday evening Diana came over.

“I’d a letter from Ella Kimball today, Anne, and she wants us to go
over to tea tomorrow afternoon to meet her cousin, Irene Trent, from
town. But we can’t get one of our horses to go, for they’ll all be in
use tomorrow, and your pony is lame . . . so I suppose we can’t go.”

“Why can’t we walk?” suggested Anne. “If we go straight back through
the woods we’ll strike the West Grafton road not far from the Kimball
place. I was through that way last winter and I know the road. It’s no
more than four miles and we won’t have to walk home, for Oliver Kimball
will be sure to drive us. He’ll be only too glad of the excuse, for he
goes to see Carrie Sloane and they say his father will hardly ever let
him have a horse.”

It was accordingly arranged that they should walk, and the following
afternoon they set out, going by way of Lover’s Lane to the back of the
Cuthbert farm, where they found a road leading into the heart of acres
of glimmering beech and maple woods, which were all in a wondrous glow
of flame and gold, lying in a great purple stillness and peace.

“It’s as if the year were kneeling to pray in a vast cathedral full of
mellow stained light, isn’t it?” said Anne dreamily. “It doesn’t seem
right to hurry through it, does it? It seems irreverent, like running
in a church.”

“We _must_ hurry though,” said Diana, glancing at her watch. “We’ve
left ourselves little enough time as it is.”