Around the next turn they came in sight, not indeed of a palace, but of
a little house almost as surprising as a palace would have been in this
province of conventional wooden farmhouses, all as much alike in
general characteristics as if they had grown from the same seed. Anne
stopped short in rapture and Diana exclaimed, “Oh, I know where we are
now. That is the little stone house where Miss Lavendar Lewis lives . .
. Echo Lodge, she calls it, I think. I’ve often heard of it but I’ve
never seen it before. Isn’t it a romantic spot?”

“It’s the sweetest, prettiest place I ever saw or imagined,” said Anne
delightedly. “It looks like a bit out of a story book or a dream.”

The house was a low-eaved structure built of undressed blocks of red
Island sandstone, with a little peaked roof out of which peered two
dormer windows, with quaint wooden hoods over them, and two great
chimneys. The whole house was covered with a luxuriant growth of ivy,
finding easy foothold on the rough stonework and turned by autumn
frosts to most beautiful bronze and wine-red tints.

Before the house was an oblong garden into which the lane gate where
the girls were standing opened. The house bounded it on one side; on
the three others it was enclosed by an old stone dyke, so overgrown
with moss and grass and ferns that it looked like a high, green bank.
On the right and left the tall, dark spruces spread their palm-like
branches over it; but below it was a little meadow, green with clover
aftermath, sloping down to the blue loop of the Grafton River. No other
house or clearing was in sight . . . nothing but hills and valleys
covered with feathery young firs.

“I wonder what sort of a person Miss Lewis is,” speculated Diana as
they opened the gate into the garden. “They say she is very peculiar.”

“She’ll be interesting then,” said Anne decidedly. “Peculiar people are
always that at least, whatever else they are or are not. Didn’t I tell
you we would come to an enchanted palace? I knew the elves hadn’t woven
magic over that lane for nothing.”

“But Miss Lavendar Lewis is hardly a spellbound princess,” laughed
Diana. “She’s an old maid . . . she’s forty-five and quite gray, I’ve
heard.”

“Oh, that’s only part of the spell,” asserted Anne confidently. “At
heart she’s young and beautiful still . . . and if we only knew how to
unloose the spell she would step forth radiant and fair again. But we
don’t know how . . . it’s always and only the prince who knows that . .
. and Miss Lavendar’s prince hasn’t come yet. Perhaps some fatal
mischance has befallen him . . . though _that’s_ against the law of all
fairy tales.”