“I’m afraid he came long ago and went away again,” said Diana. “They
say she used to be engaged to Stephen Irving . . . Paul’s father . . .
when they were young. But they quarreled and parted.”

“Hush,” warned Anne. “The door is open.”

The girls paused in the porch under the tendrils of ivy and knocked at
the open door. There was a patter of steps inside and a rather odd
little personage presented herself . . . a girl of about fourteen, with
a freckled face, a snub nose, a mouth so wide that it did really seem
as if it stretched “from ear to ear,” and two long braids of fair hair
tied with two enormous bows of blue ribbon.

“Is Miss Lewis at home?” asked Diana.

“Yes, ma’am. Come in, ma’am. I’ll tell Miss Lavendar you’re here,
ma’am. She’s upstairs, ma’am.”

With this the small handmaiden whisked out of sight and the girls, left
alone, looked about them with delighted eyes. The interior of this
wonderful little house was quite as interesting as its exterior.

The room had a low ceiling and two square, small-paned windows,
curtained with muslin frills. All the furnishings were old-fashioned,
but so well and daintily kept that the effect was delicious. But it
must be candidly admitted that the most attractive feature, to two
healthy girls who had just tramped four miles through autumn air, was a
table, set out with pale blue china and laden with delicacies, while
little golden-hued ferns scattered over the cloth gave it what Anne
would have termed “a festal air.”

“Miss Lavendar must be expecting company to tea,” she whispered. “There
are six places set. But what a funny little girl she has. She looked
like a messenger from pixy land. I suppose she could have told us the
road, but I was curious to see Miss Lavendar. S . . . s . . . sh, she’s
coming.”

And with that Miss Lavendar Lewis was standing in the doorway. The
girls were so surprised that they forgot good manners and simply
stared. They had unconsciously been expecting to see the usual type of
elderly spinster as known to their experience . . . a rather angular
personage, with prim gray hair and spectacles. Nothing more unlike Miss
Lavendar could possibly be imagined.

She was a little lady with snow-white hair beautifully wavy and thick,
and carefully arranged in becoming puffs and coils. Beneath it was an
almost girlish face, pink cheeked and sweet lipped, with big soft brown
eyes and dimples . . . actually dimples. She wore a very dainty gown of
cream muslin with pale-hued roses on it . . . a gown which would have
seemed ridiculously juvenile on most women of her age, but which suited
Miss Lavendar so perfectly that you never thought about it at all.

“Charlotta the Fourth says that you wished to see me,” she said, in a
voice that matched her appearance.