“People always admire my echoes very much,” said Miss Lavendar, as if
the echoes were her personal property. “I love them myself. They are
very good company . . . with a little pretending. On calm evenings
Charlotta the Fourth and I often sit out here and amuse ourselves with
them. Charlotta, take back the horn and hang it carefully in its
place.”

“Why do you call her Charlotta the Fourth?” asked Diana, who was
bursting with curiosity on this point.

“Just to keep her from getting mixed up with other Charlottas in my
thoughts,” said Miss Lavendar seriously. “They all look so much alike
there’s no telling them apart. Her name isn’t really Charlotta at all.
It is . . . let me see . . . what is it? I _think_ it’s Leonora . . .
yes, it _is_ Leonora. You see, it is this way. When mother died ten
years ago I couldn’t stay here alone . . . and I couldn’t afford to pay
the wages of a grown-up girl. So I got little Charlotta Bowman to come
and stay with me for board and clothes. Her name really was Charlotta .
. . she was Charlotta the First. She was just thirteen. She stayed with
me till she was sixteen and then she went away to Boston, because she
could do better there. Her sister came to stay with me then. Her name
was Julietta . . . Mrs. Bowman had a weakness for fancy names I think .
. . but she looked so like Charlotta that I kept calling her that all
the time . . .and she didn’t mind. So I just gave up trying to remember
her right name. She was Charlotta the Second, and when she went away
Evelina came and she was Charlotta the Third. Now I have Charlotta the
Fourth; but when she is sixteen . . . she’s fourteen now . . . she will
want to go to Boston too, and what I shall do then I really do not
know. Charlotta the Fourth is the last of the Bowman girls, and the
best. The other Charlottas always let me see that they thought it silly
of me to pretend things but Charlotta the Fourth never does, no matter
what she may really think. I don’t care what people think about me if
they don’t let me see it.”

“Well,” said Diana looking regretfully at the setting sun. “I suppose
we must go if we want to get to Mr. Kimball’s before dark. We’ve had a
lovely time, Miss Lewis.”

“Won’t you come again to see me?” pleaded Miss Lavendar.

Tall Anne put her arm about the little lady.

“Indeed we shall,” she promised. “Now that we have discovered you we’ll
wear out our welcome coming to see you. Yes, we must go . . . ‘we must
tear ourselves away,’ as Paul Irving says every time he comes to Green
Gables.”