“Paul Irving?” There was a subtle change in Miss Lavendar’s voice. “Who
is he? I didn’t think there was anybody of that name in Avonlea.”

Anne felt vexed at her own heedlessness. She had forgotten about Miss
Lavendar’s old romance when Paul’s name slipped out.

“He is a little pupil of mine,” she explained slowly. “He came from
Boston last year to live with his grandmother, Mrs. Irving of the shore
road.”

“Is he Stephen Irving’s son?” Miss Lavendar asked, bending over her
namesake border so that her face was hidden.

“Yes.”

“I’m going to give you girls a bunch of lavendar apiece,” said Miss
Lavendar brightly, as if she had not heard the answer to her question.
“It’s very sweet, don’t you think? Mother always loved it. She planted
these borders long ago. Father named me Lavendar because he was so fond
of it. The very first time he saw mother was when he visited her home
in East Grafton with her brother. He fell in love with her at first
sight; and they put him in the spare room bed to sleep and the sheets
were scented with lavendar and he lay awake all night and thought of
her. He always loved the scent of lavendar after that . . . and that
was why he gave me the name. Don’t forget to come back soon, girls
dear. We’ll be looking for you, Charlotta the Fourth and I.”

She opened the gate under the firs for them to pass through. She looked
suddenly old and tired; the glow and radiance had faded from her face;
her parting smile was as sweet with ineradicable youth as ever, but
when the girls looked back from the first curve in the lane they saw
her sitting on the old stone bench under the silver poplar in the
middle of the garden with her head leaning wearily on her hand.

“She does look lonely,” said Diana softly. “We must come often to see
her.”

“I think her parents gave her the only right and fitting name that
could possibly be given her,” said Anne. “If they had been so blind as
to name her Elizabeth or Nellie or Muriel she must have been called
Lavendar just the same, I think. It’s so suggestive of sweetness and
old-fashioned graces and ‘silk attire.’ Now, my name just smacks of
bread and butter, patchwork and chores.”

“Oh, I don’t think so,” said Diana. “Anne seems to me real stately and
like a queen. But I’d like Kerrenhappuch if it happened to be your
name. I think people make their names nice or ugly just by what they
are themselves. I can’t bear Josie or Gertie for names now but before I
knew the Pye girls I thought them real pretty.”