“That’s a lovely idea, Diana,” said Anne enthusiastically. “Living so
that you beautify your name, even if it wasn’t beautiful to begin with
. . . making it stand in people’s thoughts for something so lovely and
pleasant that they never think of it by itself. Thank you, Diana.”

XXII
Odds and Ends

“So you had tea at the stone house with Lavendar Lewis?” said Marilla
at the breakfast table next morning. “What is she like now? It’s over
fifteen years since I saw her last . . . it was one Sunday in Grafton
church. I suppose she has changed a great deal. Davy Keith, when you
want something you can’t reach, ask to have it passed and don’t spread
yourself over the table in that fashion. Did you ever see Paul Irving
doing that when he was here to meals?”

“But Paul’s arms are longer’n mine,” brumbled Davy. “They’ve had eleven
years to grow and mine’ve only had seven. ‘Sides, I _did_ ask, but you
and Anne was so busy talking you didn’t pay any ‘tention. ‘Sides,
Paul’s never been here to any meal escept tea, and it’s easier to be
p’lite at tea than at breakfast. You ain’t half as hungry. It’s an
awful long while between supper and breakfast. Now, Anne, that spoonful
ain’t any bigger than it was last year and _I_’m ever so much bigger.”

“Of course, I don’t know what Miss Lavendar used to look like but I
don’t fancy somehow that she has changed a great deal,” said Anne,
after she had helped Davy to maple syrup, giving him two spoonfuls to
pacify him. “Her hair is snow-white but her face is fresh and almost
girlish, and she has the sweetest brown eyes . . . such a pretty shade
of wood-brown with little golden glints in them . . . and her voice
makes you think of white satin and tinkling water and fairy bells all
mixed up together.”

“She was reckoned a great beauty when she was a girl,” said Marilla. “I
never knew her very well but I liked her as far as I did know her. Some
folks thought her peculiar even then. _Davy_, if ever I catch you at
such a trick again you’ll be made to wait for your meals till everyone
else is done, like the French.”

Most conversations between Anne and Marilla in the presence of the
twins, were punctuated by these rebukes Davy-ward. In this instance,
Davy, sad to relate, not being able to scoop up the last drops of his
syrup with his spoon, had solved the difficulty by lifting his plate in
both hands and applying his small pink tongue to it. Anne looked at him
with such horrified eyes that the little sinner turned red and said,
half shamefacedly, half defiantly,

“There ain’t any wasted that way.”