“People who are different from other people are always called
peculiar,” said Anne. “And Miss Lavendar is certainly different, though
it’s hard to say just where the difference comes in. Perhaps it is
because she is one of those people who never grow old.”

“One might as well grow old when all your generation do,” said Marilla,
rather reckless of her pronouns. “If you don’t, you don’t fit in
anywhere. Far as I can learn Lavendar Lewis has just dropped out of
everything. She’s lived in that out of the way place until everybody
has forgotten her. That stone house is one of the oldest on the Island.
Old Mr. Lewis built it eighty years ago when he came out from England.
Davy, stop joggling Dora’s elbow. Oh, I saw you! You needn’t try to
look innocent. What does make you behave so this morning?”

“Maybe I got out of the wrong side of the bed,” suggested Davy. “Milty
Boulter says if you do that things are bound to go wrong with you all
day. His grandmother told him. But which _is_ the right side? And what
are you to do when your bed’s against the wall? I want to know.”

“I’ve always wondered what went wrong between Stephen Irving and
Lavendar Lewis,” continued Marilla, ignoring Davy. “They were certainly
engaged twenty-five years ago and then all at once it was broken off. I
don’t know what the trouble was but it must have been something
terrible, for he went away to the States and never come home since.”

“Perhaps it was nothing very dreadful after all. I think the little
things in life often make more trouble than the big things,” said Anne,
with one of those flashes of insight which experience could not have
bettered. “Marilla, please don’t say anything about my being at Miss
Lavendar’s to Mrs. Lynde. She’d be sure to ask a hundred questions and
somehow I wouldn’t like it . . . nor Miss Lavendar either if she knew,
I feel sure.”

“I daresay Rachel would be curious,” admitted Marilla, “though she
hasn’t as much time as she used to have for looking after other
people’s affairs. She’s tied home now on account of Thomas; and she’s
feeling pretty downhearted, for I think she’s beginning to lose hope of
his ever getting better. Rachel will be left pretty lonely if anything
happens to him, with all her children settled out west, except Eliza in
town; and she doesn’t like her husband.”

Marilla’s pronouns slandered Eliza, who was very fond of her husband.