“Rachel says if he’d only brace up and exert his will power he’d get
better. But what is the use of asking a jellyfish to sit up straight?”
continued Marilla. “Thomas Lynde never had any will power to exert. His
mother ruled him till he married and then Rachel carried it on. It’s a
wonder he dared to get sick without asking her permission. But there, I
shouldn’t talk so. Rachel has been a good wife to him. He’d never have
amounted to anything without her, that’s certain. He was born to be
ruled; and it’s well he fell into the hands of a clever, capable
manager like Rachel. He didn’t mind her way. It saved him the bother of
ever making up his own mind about anything. Davy, do stop squirming
like an eel.”

“I’ve nothing else to do,” protested Davy. “I can’t eat any more, and
it’s no fun watching you and Anne eat.”

“Well, you and Dora go out and give the hens their wheat,” said
Marilla. “And don’t you try to pull any more feathers out of the white
rooster’s tail either.”

“I wanted some feathers for an Injun headdress,” said Davy sulkily.
“Milty Boulter has a dandy one, made out of the feathers his mother
give him when she killed their old white gobbler. You might let me have
some. That rooster’s got ever so many more’n he wants.”

“You may have the old feather duster in the garret,” said Anne, “and
I’ll dye them green and red and yellow for you.”

“You do spoil that boy dreadfully,” said Marilla, when Davy, with a
radiant face, had followed prim Dora out. Marilla’s education had made
great strides in the past six years; but she had not yet been able to
rid herself of the idea that it was very bad for a child to have too
many of its wishes indulged.

“All the boys of his class have Indian headdresses, and Davy wants one
too,” said Anne. “_I_ know how it feels . . . I’ll never forget how I
used to long for puffed sleeves when all the other girls had them. And
Davy isn’t being spoiled. He is improving every day. Think what a
difference there is in him since he came here a year ago.”

“He certainly doesn’t get into as much mischief since he began to go to
school,” acknowledged Marilla. “I suppose he works off the tendency
with the other boys. But it’s a wonder to me we haven’t heard from
Richard Keith before this. Never a word since last May.”

“I’ll be afraid to hear from him,” sighed Anne, beginning to clear away
the dishes. “If a letter should come I’d dread opening it, for fear it
would tell us to send the twins to him.”