“We had just a stupid, silly, commonplace quarrel. So commonplace that,
if you’ll believe me, I don’t even remember just how it began. I hardly
know who was the more to blame for it. Stephen did really begin it, but
I suppose I provoked him by some foolishness of mine. He had a rival or
two, you see. I was vain and coquettish and liked to tease him a
little. He was a very high-strung, sensitive fellow. Well, we parted in
a temper on both sides. But I thought it would all come right; and it
would have if Stephen hadn’t come back too soon. Anne, my dear, I’m
sorry to say” . . . Miss Lavendar dropped her voice as if she were
about to confess a predilection for murdering people, “that I am a
dreadfully sulky person. Oh, you needn’t smile, . . . it’s only too
true. I _do_ sulk; and Stephen came back before I had finished sulking.
I wouldn’t listen to him and I wouldn’t forgive him; and so he went
away for good. He was too proud to come again. And then I sulked
because he didn’t come. I might have sent for him perhaps, but I
couldn’t humble myself to do that. I was just as proud as he was . . .
pride and sulkiness make a very bad combination, Anne. But I could
never care for anybody else and I didn’t want to. I knew I would rather
be an old maid for a thousand years than marry anybody who wasn’t
Stephen Irving. Well, it all seems like a dream now, of course. How
sympathetic you look, Anne . . . as sympathetic as only seventeen can
look. But don’t overdo it. I’m really a very happy, contented little
person in spite of my broken heart. My heart did break, if ever a heart
did, when I realized that Stephen Irving was not coming back. But,
Anne, a broken heart in real life isn’t half as dreadful as it is in
books. It’s a good deal like a bad tooth . . . though you won’t think
_that_ a very romantic simile. It takes spells of aching and gives you
a sleepless night now and then, but between times it lets you enjoy
life and dreams and echoes and peanut candy as if there were nothing
the matter with it. And now you’re looking disappointed. You don’t
think I’m half as interesting a person as you did five minutes ago when
you believed I was always the prey of a tragic memory bravely hidden
beneath external smiles. That’s the worst . . . or the best . . . of
real life, Anne. It _won’t_ let you be miserable. It keeps on trying to
make you comfortable . . . and succeeding...even when you’re determined
to be unhappy and romantic. Isn’t this candy scrumptious? I’ve eaten
far more than is good for me already but I’m going to keep recklessly
on.”

After a little silence Miss Lavendar said abruptly,