“Kind of slow,” said Davy with a sigh. “I don’t know why the things
don’t grow better. Milty Boulter says I must have planted them in the
dark of the moon and that’s the whole trouble. He says you must never
sow seeds or kill pork or cut your hair or do any ‘portant thing in the
wrong time of the moon. Is that true, Anne? I want to know.”

“Maybe if you didn’t pull your plants up by the roots every other day
to see how they’re getting on ‘at the other end,’ they’d do better,”
said Marilla sarcastically.

“I only pulled six of them up,” protested Davy. “I wanted to see if
there was grubs at the roots. Milty Boulter said if it wasn’t the
moon’s fault it must be grubs. But I only found one grub. He was a
great big juicy curly grub. I put him on a stone and got another stone
and smashed him flat. He made a jolly sqush I tell you. I was sorry
there wasn’t more of them. Dora’s garden was planted same time’s mine
and her things are growing all right. It _can’t_ be the moon,” Davy
concluded in a reflective tone.

“Marilla, look at that apple tree,” said Anne. “Why, the thing is
human. It is reaching out long arms to pick its own pink skirts
daintily up and provoke us to admiration.”

“Those Yellow Duchess trees always bear well,” said Marilla
complacently. “That tree’ll be loaded this year. I’m real glad. . .
they’re great for pies.”

But neither Marilla nor Anne nor anybody else was fated to make pies
out of Yellow Duchess apples that year.

The twenty-third of May came . . . an unseasonably warm day, as none
realized more keenly than Anne and her little beehive of pupils,
sweltering over fractions and syntax in the Avonlea schoolroom. A hot
breeze blew all the forenoon; but after noon hour it died away into a
heavy stillness. At half past three Anne heard a low rumble of thunder.
She promptly dismissed school at once, so that the children might get
home before the storm came.

As they went out to the playground Anne perceived a certain shadow and
gloom over the world in spite of the fact that the sun was still
shining brightly. Annetta Bell caught her hand nervously.

“Oh, teacher, look at that awful cloud!”

Anne looked and gave an exclamation of dismay. In the northwest a mass
of cloud, such as she had never in all her life beheld before, was
rapidly rolling up. It was dead black, save where its curled and
fringed edges showed a ghastly, livid white. There was something about
it indescribably menacing as it gloomed up in the clear blue sky; now
and again a bolt of lightning shot across it, followed by a savage
growl. It hung so low that it almost seemed to be touching the tops of
the wooded hills.