Mr. Harmon Andrews came clattering up the hill in his truck wagon,
urging his team of grays to their utmost speed. He pulled them to a
halt opposite the school.

“Guess Uncle Abe’s hit it for once in his life, Anne,” he shouted. “His
storm’s coming a leetle ahead of time. Did ye ever see the like of that
cloud? Here, all you young ones, that are going my way, pile in, and
those that ain’t scoot for the post office if ye’ve more’n a quarter of
a mile to go, and stay there till the shower’s over.”

Anne caught Davy and Dora by the hands and flew down the hill, along
the Birch Path, and past Violet Vale and Willowmere, as fast as the
twins’ fat legs could go. They reached Green Gables not a moment too
soon and were joined at the door by Marilla, who had been hustling her
ducks and chickens under shelter. As they dashed into the kitchen the
light seemed to vanish, as if blown out by some mighty breath; the
awful cloud rolled over the sun and a darkness as of late twilight fell
across the world. At the same moment, with a crash of thunder and a
blinding glare of lightning, the hail swooped down and blotted the
landscape out in one white fury.

Through all the clamor of the storm came the thud of torn branches
striking the house and the sharp crack of breaking glass. In three
minutes every pane in the west and north windows was broken and the
hail poured in through the apertures covering the floor with stones,
the smallest of which was as big as a hen’s egg. For three quarters of
an hour the storm raged unabated and no one who underwent it ever
forgot it. Marilla, for once in her life shaken out of her composure by
sheer terror, knelt by her rocking chair in a corner of the kitchen,
gasping and sobbing between the deafening thunder peals. Anne, white as
paper, had dragged the sofa away from the window and sat on it with a
twin on either side. Davy at the first crash had howled, “Anne, Anne,
is it the Judgment Day? Anne, Anne, I never _meant_ to be naughty,” and
then had buried his face in Anne’s lap and kept it there, his little
body quivering. Dora, somewhat pale but quite composed, sat with her
hand clasped in Anne’s, quiet and motionless. It is doubtful if an
earthquake would have disturbed Dora.

Then, almost as suddenly as it began, the storm ceased. The hail
stopped, the thunder rolled and muttered away to the eastward, and the
sun burst out merry and radiant over a world so changed that it seemed
an absurd thing to think that a scant three quarters of an hour could
have effected such a transformation.

Marilla rose from her knees, weak and trembling, and dropped on her
rocker. Her face was haggard and she looked ten years older.

“Have we all come out of that alive?” she asked solemnly.