“You bet we have,” piped Davy cheerfully, quite his own man again. “I
wasn’t a bit scared either . . . only just at the first. It come on a
fellow so sudden. I made up my mind quick as a wink that I wouldn’t
fight Teddy Sloane Monday as I’d promised; but now maybe I will. Say,
Dora, was you scared?”

“Yes, I was a little scared,” said Dora primly, “but I held tight to
Anne’s hand and said my prayers over and over again.”

“Well, I’d have said my prayers too if I’d have thought of it,” said
Davy; “but,” he added triumphantly, “you see I came through just as
safe as you for all I didn’t say them.”

Anne got Marilla a glassful of her potent currant wine . . . _how_
potent it was Anne, in her earlier days, had had all too good reason to
know . . . and then they went to the door to look out on the strange
scene.

Far and wide was a white carpet, knee deep, of hailstones; drifts of
them were heaped up under the eaves and on the steps. When, three or
four days later, those hailstones melted, the havoc they had wrought
was plainly seen, for every green growing thing in the field or garden
was cut off. Not only was every blossom stripped from the apple trees
but great boughs and branches were wrenched away. And out of the two
hundred trees set out by the Improvers by far the greater number were
snapped off or torn to shreds.

“Can it possibly be the same world it was an hour ago?” asked Anne,
dazedly. “It _must_ have taken longer than that to play such havoc.”

“The like of this has never been known in Prince Edward Island,” said
Marilla, “never. I remember when I was a girl there was a bad storm,
but it was nothing to this. We’ll hear of terrible destruction, you may
be sure.”

“I do hope none of the children were caught out in it,” murmured Anne
anxiously. As it was discovered later, none of the children had been,
since all those who had any distance to go had taken Mr. Andrews’
excellent advice and sought refuge at the post office.

“There comes John Henry Carter,” said Marilla.

John Henry came wading through the hailstones with a rather scared
grin.

“Oh, ain’t this awful, Miss Cuthbert? Mr. Harrison sent me over to see
if yous had come out all right.”

“We’re none of us killed,” said Marilla grimly, “and none of the
buildings was struck. I hope you got off equally well.”

“Yas’m. Not quite so well, ma’am. We was struck. The lightning knocked
over the kitchen chimbly and come down the flue and knocked over
Ginger’s cage and tore a hole in the floor and went into the sullar.
Yas’m.”

“Was Ginger hurt?” queried Anne.