“Yas’m. He was hurt pretty bad. He was killed.” Later on Anne went over
to comfort Mr. Harrison. She found him sitting by the table, stroking
Ginger’s gay dead body with a trembling hand.

“Poor Ginger won’t call you any more names, Anne,” he said mournfully.

Anne could never have imagined herself crying on Ginger’s account, but
the tears came into her eyes.

“He was all the company I had, Anne . . . and now he’s dead. Well,
well, I’m an old fool to care so much. I’ll let on I don’t care. I know
you’re going to say something sympathetic as soon as I stop talking . .
. but don’t. If you did I’d cry like a baby. Hasn’t this been a
terrible storm? I guess folks won’t laugh at Uncle Abe’s predictions
again. Seems as if all the storms that he’s been prophesying all his
life that never happened came all at once. Beats all how he struck the
very day though, don’t it? Look at the mess we have here. I must hustle
round and get some boards to patch up that hole in the floor.”

Avonlea folks did nothing the next day but visit each other and compare
damages. The roads were impassable for wheels by reason of the
hailstones, so they walked or rode on horseback. The mail came late
with ill tidings from all over the province. Houses had been struck,
people killed and injured; the whole telephone and telegraph system had
been disorganized, and any number of young stock exposed in the fields
had perished.

Uncle Abe waded out to the blacksmith’s forge early in the morning and
spent the whole day there. It was Uncle Abe’s hour of triumph and he
enjoyed it to the full. It would be doing Uncle Abe an injustice to say
that he was glad the storm had happened; but since it had to be he was
very glad he had predicted it . . . to the very day, too. Uncle Abe
forgot that he had ever denied setting the day. As for the trifling
discrepancy in the hour, that was nothing.

Gilbert arrived at Green Gables in the evening and found Marilla and
Anne busily engaged in nailing strips of oilcloth over the broken
windows.

“Goodness only knows when we’ll get glass for them,” said Marilla. “Mr.
Barry went over to Carmody this afternoon but not a pane could he get
for love or money. Lawson and Blair were cleaned out by the Carmody
people by ten o’clock. Was the storm bad at White Sands, Gilbert?”

“I should say so. I was caught in the school with all the children and
I thought some of them would go mad with fright. Three of them fainted,
and two girls took hysterics, and Tommy Blewett did nothing but shriek
at the top of his voice the whole time.”