“I only squealed once,” said Davy proudly. “My garden was all smashed
flat,” he continued mournfully, “but so was Dora’s,” he added in a tone
which indicated that there was yet balm in Gilead.

Anne came running down from the west gable.

“Oh, Gilbert, have you heard the news? Mr. Levi Boulter’s old house was
struck and burned to the ground. It seems to me that I’m dreadfully
wicked to feel glad over _that_, when so much damage has been done. Mr.
Boulter says he believes the A.V.I.S. magicked up that storm on
purpose.”

“Well, one thing is certain,” said Gilbert, laughing, “‘Observer’ has
made Uncle Abe’s reputation as a weather prophet. ‘Uncle Abe’s storm’
will go down in local history. It is a most extraordinary coincidence
that it should have come on the very day we selected. I actually have a
half guilty feeling, as if I really had ‘magicked’ it up. We may as
well rejoice over the old house being removed, for there’s not much to
rejoice over where our young trees are concerned. Not ten of them have
escaped.”

“Ah, well, we’ll just have to plant them over again next spring,” said
Anne philosophically. “That is one good thing about this world . . .
there are always sure to be more springs.”

XXV
An Avonlea Scandal

One blithe June morning, a fortnight after Uncle Abe’s storm, Anne came
slowly through the Green Gables yard from the garden, carrying in her
hands two blighted stalks of white narcissus.

“Look, Marilla,” she said sorrowfully, holding up the flowers before
the eyes of a grim lady, with her hair coifed in a green gingham apron,
who was going into the house with a plucked chicken, “these are the
only buds the storm spared . . . and even they are imperfect. I’m so
sorry . . . I wanted some for Matthew’s grave. He was always so fond of
June lilies.”

“I kind of miss them myself,” admitted Marilla, “though it doesn’t seem
right to lament over them when so many worse things have happened. . .
all the crops destroyed as well as the fruit.”

“But people have sown their oats over again,” said Anne comfortingly,
“and Mr. Harrison says he thinks if we have a good summer they will
come out all right though late. And my annuals are all coming up again
. . . but oh, nothing can replace the June lilies. Poor little Hester
Gray will have none either. I went all the way back to her garden last
night but there wasn’t one. I’m sure she’ll miss them.”

“I don’t think it’s right for you to say such things, Anne, I really
don’t,” said Marilla severely. “Hester Gray has been dead for thirty
years and her spirit is in heaven . . . I hope.”