“Well, we soon will. I’m going straight over there,” said Mrs. Lynde,
who had never learned that there was such a word as delicacy in the
dictionary. “I’m not supposed to know anything about her arrival, and
Mr. Harrison was to bring some medicine for Thomas from Carmody today,
so that will be a good excuse. I’ll find out the whole story and come
in and tell you on the way back.”

Mrs. Lynde rushed in where Anne had feared to tread. Nothing would have
induced the latter to go over to the Harrison place; but she had her
natural and proper share of curiosity and she felt secretly glad that
Mrs. Lynde was going to solve the mystery. She and Marilla waited
expectantly for that good lady’s return, but waited in vain. Mrs. Lynde
did not revisit Green Gables that night. Davy, arriving home at nine
o’clock from the Boulter place, explained why.

“I met Mrs. Lynde and some strange woman in the Hollow,” he said, “and
gracious, how they were talking both at once! Mrs. Lynde said to tell
you she was sorry it was too late to call tonight. Anne, I’m awful
hungry. We had tea at Milty’s at four and I think Mrs. Boulter is real
mean. She didn’t give us any preserves or cake . . . and even the bread
was skurce.”

“Davy, when you go visiting you must never criticize anything you are
given to eat,” said Anne solemnly. “It is very bad manners.”

“All right . . . I’ll only think it,” said Davy cheerfully. “Do give a
fellow some supper, Anne.”

Anne looked at Marilla, who followed her into the pantry and shut the
door cautiously.

“You can give him some jam on his bread, I know what tea at Levi
Boulter’s is apt to be.”

Davy took his slice of bread and jam with a sigh.

“It’s a kind of disappointing world after all,” he remarked. “Milty has
a cat that takes fits . . . she’s took a fit regular every day for
three weeks. Milty says it’s awful fun to watch her. I went down today
on purpose to see her have one but the mean old thing wouldn’t take a
fit and just kept healthy as healthy, though Milty and me hung round
all the afternoon and waited. But never mind” . . . Davy brightened up
as the insidious comfort of the plum jam stole into his soul . . .
“maybe I’ll see her in one sometime yet. It doesn’t seem likely she’d
stop having them all at once when she’s been so in the habit of it,
does it? This jam is awful nice.”

Davy had no sorrows that plum jam could not cure.

Sunday proved so rainy that there was no stirring abroad; but by Monday
everybody had heard some version of the Harrison story. The school
buzzed with it and Davy came home, full of information.