“Marilla, Mr. Harrison has a new wife . . . well, not ezackly new, but
they’ve stopped being married for quite a spell, Milty says. I always
s’posed people had to keep on being married once they’d begun, but
Milty says no, there’s ways of stopping if you can’t agree. Milty says
one way is just to start off and leave your wife, and that’s what Mr.
Harrison did. Milty says Mr. Harrison left his wife because she throwed
things at him . . . _hard_ things . . . and Arty Sloane says it was
because she wouldn’t let him smoke, and Ned Clay says it was ’cause she
never let up scolding him. I wouldn’t leave MY wife for anything like
that. I’d just put my foot down and say, ‘Mrs. Davy, you’ve just got to
do what’ll please _me_ ’cause I’m a _man_.’ _That’d_ settle her pretty
quick I guess. But Annetta Clay says _she_ left _him_ because he
wouldn’t scrape his boots at the door and she doesn’t blame her. I’m
going right over to Mr. Harrison’s this minute to see what she’s like.”

Davy soon returned, somewhat cast down.

“Mrs. Harrison was away . . . she’s gone to Carmody with Mrs. Rachel
Lynde to get new paper for the parlor. And Mr. Harrison said to tell
Anne to go over and see him ’cause he wants to have a talk with her.
And say, the floor is scrubbed, and Mr. Harrison is shaved, though
there wasn’t any preaching yesterday.”

The Harrison kitchen wore a very unfamiliar look to Anne. The floor was
indeed scrubbed to a wonderful pitch of purity and so was every article
of furniture in the room; the stove was polished until she could see
her face in it; the walls were whitewashed and the window panes
sparkled in the sunlight. By the table sat Mr. Harrison in his working
clothes, which on Friday had been noted for sundry rents and tatters
but which were now neatly patched and brushed. He was sprucely shaved
and what little hair he had was carefully trimmed.

“Sit down, Anne, sit down,” said Mr. Harrison in a tone but two degrees
removed from that which Avonlea people used at funerals. “Emily’s gone
over to Carmody with Rachel Lynde . . . she’s struck up a lifelong
friendship already with Rachel Lynde. Beats all how contrary women are.
Well, Anne, my easy times are over . . . all over. It’s neatness and
tidiness for me for the rest of my natural life, I suppose.”

Mr. Harrison did his best to speak dolefully, but an irrepressible
twinkle in his eye betrayed him.

“Mr. Harrison, you are glad your wife is come back,” cried Anne,
shaking her finger at him. “You needn’t pretend you’re not, because I
can see it plainly.”

Mr. Harrison relaxed into a sheepish smile.