“I lived in Scottsford, New Brunswick, before I came here, Anne. My
sister kept house for me and she suited me fine; she was just
reasonably tidy and she let me alone and spoiled me . . . so Emily
says. But three years ago she died. Before she died she worried a lot
about what was to become of me and finally she got me to promise I’d
get married. She advised me to take Emily Scott because Emily had money
of her own and was a pattern housekeeper. I said, says I, ‘Emily Scott
wouldn’t look at me.’ ‘You ask her and see,’ says my sister; and just
to ease her mind I promised her I would . . . and I did. And Emily said
she’d have me. Never was so surprised in my life, Anne . . . a smart
pretty little woman like her and an old fellow like me. I tell you I
thought at first I was in luck. Well, we were married and took a little
wedding trip to St. John for a fortnight and then we went home. We got
home at ten o’clock at night, and I give you my word, Anne, that in
half an hour that woman was at work housecleaning. Oh, I know you’re
thinking my house needed it . . . you’ve got a very expressive face,
Anne; your thoughts just come out on it like print . . . but it didn’t,
not that bad. It had got pretty mixed up while I was keeping bachelor’s
hall, I admit, but I’d got a woman to come in and clean it up before I
was married and there’d been considerable painting and fixing done. I
tell you if you took Emily into a brand new white marble palace she’d
be into the scrubbing as soon as she could get an old dress on. Well,
she cleaned house till one o’clock that night and at four she was up
and at it again. And she kept on that way . . . far’s I could see she
never stopped. It was scour and sweep and dust everlasting, except on
Sundays, and then she was just longing for Monday to begin again. But
it was her way of amusing herself and I could have reconciled myself to
it if she’d left me alone. But that she wouldn’t do. She’d set out to
make me over but she hadn’t caught me young enough. I wasn’t allowed to
come into the house unless I changed my boots for slippers at the door. I darsn’t smoke a pipe for my life unless I went to the barn. And I
didn’t use good enough grammar. Emily’d been a schoolteacher in her
early life and she’d never got over it. Then she hated to see me eating
with my knife. Well, there it was, pick and nag everlasting. But I
s’pose, Anne, to be fair, _I_ was cantankerous too. I didn’t try to
improve as I might have done . . .