“Then I needn’t tell it, for James A. is a just man and he would tell
the truth. The blame was far from being all on his side. I can see that
now. I wasn’t back in my own house an hour before I wished I hadn’t
been so hasty but I wouldn’t give in. I see now that I expected too
much of a man. And I was real foolish to mind his bad grammar. It
doesn’t matter if a man does use bad grammar so long as he is a good
provider and doesn’t go poking round the pantry to see how much sugar
you’ve used in a week. I feel that James A. and I are going to be real
happy now. I wish I knew who ‘Observer’ is, so that I could thank him.
I owe him a real debt of gratitude.”

Anne kept her own counsel and Mrs. Harrison never knew that her
gratitude found its way to its object. Anne felt rather bewildered over
the far-reaching consequences of those foolish “notes.” They had
reconciled a man to his wife and made the reputation of a prophet.

Mrs. Lynde was in the Green Gables kitchen. She had been telling the
whole story to Marilla.

“Well, and how do you like Mrs. Harrison?” she asked Anne.

“Very much. I think she’s a real nice little woman.”

“That’s exactly what she is,” said Mrs. Rachel with emphasis, “and as
I’ve just been sayin’ to Marilla, I think we ought all to overlook Mr.
Harrison’s peculiarities for her sake and try to make her feel at home
here, that’s what. Well, I must get back. Thomas’ll be wearying for me.
I get out a little since Eliza came and he’s seemed a lot better these
past few days, but I never like to be long away from him. I hear
Gilbert Blythe has resigned from White Sands. He’ll be off to college
in the fall, I suppose.”

Mrs. Rachel looked sharply at Anne, but Anne was bending over a sleepy
Davy nodding on the sofa and nothing was to be read in her face. She
carried Davy away, her oval girlish cheek pressed against his curly
yellow head. As they went up the stairs Davy flung a tired arm about
Anne’s neck and gave her a warm hug and a sticky kiss.

“You’re awful nice, Anne. Milty Boulter wrote on his slate today and
showed it to Jennie Sloane,

“‘Roses red and vi’lets blue,
Sugar’s sweet, and so are you”

and that ’spresses my feelings for you ezackly, Anne.”

XXVI
Around the Bend

Thomas Lynde faded out of life as quietly and unobtrusively as he had
lived it. His wife was a tender, patient, unwearied nurse. Sometimes
Rachel had been a little hard on her Thomas in health, when his
slowness or meekness had provoked her; but when he became ill no voice
could be lower, no hand more gently skillful, no vigil more
uncomplaining.