“Well, I think it could be managed so that Rachel and I wouldn’t clash
at all. It always seemed to me that the reason two women can’t get
along in one house is that they try to share the same kitchen and get
in each other’s way. Now, if Rachel came here, she could have the north
gable for her bedroom and the spare room for a kitchen as well as not,
for we don’t really need a spare room at all. She could put her stove
there and what furniture she wanted to keep, and be real comfortable
and independent. She’ll have enough to live on of course...her
children’ll see to that...so all I’d be giving her would be house room.
Yes, Anne, far as I’m concerned I’d like it.”

“Then ask her,” said Anne promptly. “I’d be very sorry myself to see
Mrs. Rachel go away.”

“And if she comes,” continued Marilla, “You can go to college as well
as not. She’ll be company for me and she’ll do for the twins what I
can’t do, so there’s no reason in the world why you shouldn’t go.”

Anne had a long meditation at her window that night. Joy and regret
struggled together in her heart. She had come at last . . . suddenly
and unexpectedly . . . to the bend in the road; and college _was_
around it, with a hundred rainbow hopes and visions; but Anne realized
as well that when she rounded that curve she must leave many sweet
things behind. . . all the little simple duties and interests which had
grown so dear to her in the last two years and which she had glorified
into beauty and delight by the enthusiasm she had put into them. She
must give up her school . . . and she loved every one of her pupils,
even the stupid and naughty ones. The mere thought of Paul Irving made
her wonder if Redmond were such a name to conjure with after all.

“I’ve put out a lot of little roots these two years,” Anne told the
moon, “and when I’m pulled up they’re going to hurt a great deal. But
it’s best to go, I think, and, as Marilla says, there’s no good reason
why I shouldn’t. I must get out all my ambitions and dust them.”

Anne sent in her resignation the next day; and Mrs. Rachel, after a
heart to heart talk with Marilla, gratefully accepted the offer of a
home at Green Gables. She elected to remain in her own house for the
summer, however; the farm was not to be sold until the fall and there
were many arrangements to be made.