“Oh, thank you. I meant to ask you to if you would. And on little
Hester Gray’s too? Please don’t forget hers. Do you know, I’ve thought
and dreamed so much about little Hester Gray that she has become
strangely real to me. I think of her, back there in her little garden
in that cool, still, green corner; and I have a fancy that if I could
steal back there some spring evening, just at the magic time ’twixt
light and dark, and tiptoe so softly up the beech hill that my
footsteps could not frighten her, I would find the garden just as it
used to be, all sweet with June lilies and early roses, with the tiny
house beyond it all hung with vines; and little Hester Gray would be
there, with her soft eyes, and the wind ruffling her dark hair,
wandering about, putting her fingertips under the chins of the lilies
and whispering secrets with the roses; and I would go forward, oh, so
softly, and hold out my hands and say to her, ‘Little Hester Gray,
won’t you let me be your playmate, for I love the roses too?’ And we
would sit down on the old bench and talk a little and dream a little,
or just be beautifully silent together. And then the moon would rise
and I would look around me . . . and there would be no Hester Gray and
no little vine-hung house, and no roses . . . only an old waste garden
starred with June lilies amid the grasses, and the wind sighing, oh, so
sorrowfully in the cherry trees. And I would not know whether it had
been real or if I had just imagined it all.” Diana crawled up and got
her back against the headboard of the bed. When your companion of
twilight hour said such spooky things it was just as well not to be
able to fancy there was anything behind you.

“I’m afraid the Improvement Society will go down when you and Gilbert
are both gone,” she remarked dolefully.

“Not a bit of fear of it,” said Anne briskly, coming back from
dreamland to the affairs of practical life. “It is too firmly
established for that, especially since the older people are becoming so
enthusiastic about it. Look what they are doing this summer for their
lawns and lanes. Besides, I’ll be watching for hints at Redmond and
I’ll write a paper for it next winter and send it over. Don’t take such
a gloomy view of things, Diana. And don’t grudge me my little hour of
gladness and jubilation now. Later on, when I have to go away, I’ll
feel anything but glad.”

“It’s all right for you to be glad . . . you’re going to college and
you’ll have a jolly time and make heaps of lovely new friends.”