“I know,” nodded Diana. “It’s the Gillis coming out in her . . . she
can’t help it. Mrs. Lynde says that if ever a Gillis girl thought about
anything but the boys she never showed it in her walk and conversation.
She talks about nothing but boys and what compliments they pay her, and
how crazy they all are about her at Carmody. And the strange thing is,
they _are_, too . . .” Diana admitted this somewhat resentfully. “Last
night when I saw her in Mr. Blair’s store she whispered to me that
she’d just made a new ‘mash.’ I wouldn’t ask her who it was, because I
knew she was dying to _be_ asked. Well, it’s what Ruby always wanted, I
suppose. You remember even when she was little she always said she
meant to have dozens of beaus when she grew up and have the very gayest
time she could before she settled down. She’s so different from Jane,
isn’t she? Jane is such a nice, sensible, lady-like girl.”

“Dear old Jane is a jewel,” agreed Anne, “but,” she added, leaning
forward to bestow a tender pat on the plump, dimpled little hand
hanging over her pillow, “there’s nobody like my own Diana after all.
Do you remember that evening we first met, Diana, and ‘swore’ eternal
friendship in your garden? We’ve kept that ‘oath,’ I think . . . we’ve
never had a quarrel nor even a coolness. I shall never forget the
thrill that went over me the day you told me you loved me. I had had
such a lonely, starved heart all through my childhood. I’m just
beginning to realize how starved and lonely it really was. Nobody cared
anything for me or wanted to be bothered with me. I should have been
miserable if it hadn’t been for that strange little dream-life of mine,
wherein I imagined all the friends and love I craved. But when I came
to Green Gables everything was changed. And then I met you. You don’t
know what your friendship meant to me. I want to thank you here and
now, dear, for the warm and true affection you’ve always given me.”

“And always, always will,” sobbed Diana. “I shall _never_ love anybody
. . . any _girl_ . . . half as well as I love you. And if I ever do
marry and have a little girl of my own I’m going to name her _Anne_.”

XXVII
An Afternoon at the Stone House

“Where are you going, all dressed up, Anne?” Davy wanted to know. “You
look bully in that dress.”

Anne had come down to dinner in a new dress of pale green muslin . . .
the first color she had worn since Matthew’s death. It became her
perfectly, bringing out all the delicate, flower-like tints of her face
and the gloss and burnish of her hair.

“Davy, how many times have I told you that you mustn’t use that word,”
she rebuked. “I’m going to Echo Lodge.”

“Take me with you,” entreated Davy.