“I would if I were driving. But I’m going to walk and it’s too far for
your eight-year-old legs. Besides, Paul is going with me and I fear you
don’t enjoy yourself in his company.”

“Oh, I like Paul lots better’n I did,” said Davy, beginning to make
fearful inroads into his pudding. “Since I’ve got pretty good myself I
don’t mind his being gooder so much. If I can keep on I’ll catch up
with him some day, both in legs and goodness. ‘Sides, Paul’s real nice
to us second primer boys in school. He won’t let the other big boys
meddle with us and he shows us lots of games.”

“How came Paul to fall into the brook at noon hour yesterday?” asked
Anne. “I met him on the playground, such a dripping figure that I sent
him promptly home for clothes without waiting to find out what had
happened.”

“Well, it was partly a zacksident,” explained Davy. “He stuck his head
in on purpose but the rest of him fell in zacksidentally. We was all
down at the brook and Prillie Rogerson got mad at Paul about something
. . . she’s awful mean and horrid anyway, if she IS pretty . . . and
said that his grandmother put his hair up in curl rags every night.
Paul wouldn’t have minded what she said, I guess, but Gracie Andrews
laughed, and Paul got awful red, ’cause Gracie’s his girl, you know.
He’s _clean gone_ on her . . . brings her flowers and carries her books
as far as the shore road. He got as red as a beet and said his
grandmother didn’t do any such thing and his hair was born curly. And
then he laid down on the bank and stuck his head right into the spring
to show them. Oh, it wasn’t the spring we drink out of . . .” seeing a
horrified look on Marilla’s face . . . “it was the little one lower
down. But the bank’s awful slippy and Paul went right in. I tell you he
made a bully splash. Oh, Anne, Anne, I didn’t mean to say that . . . it
just slipped out before I thought. He made a _splendid_ splash. But he
looked so funny when he crawled out, all wet and muddy. The girls
laughed more’n ever, but Gracie didn’t laugh. She looked sorry.
Gracie’s a nice girl but she’s got a snub nose. When I get big enough
to have a girl I won’t have one with a snub nose . . . I’ll pick one
with a pretty nose like yours, Anne.”

“A boy who makes such a mess of syrup all over his face when he is
eating his pudding will never get a girl to look at him,” said Marilla
severely.