When Anne and Paul reached the stone house that afternoon they found
Miss Lavendar and Charlotta the Fourth in the garden, weeding, raking,
clipping, and trimming as if for dear life. Miss Lavendar herself, all
gay and sweet in the frills and laces she loved, dropped her shears and
ran joyously to meet her guests, while Charlotta the Fourth grinned
cheerfully.

“Welcome, Anne. I thought you’d come today. You belong to the afternoon
so it brought you. Things that belong together are sure to come
together. What a lot of trouble that would save some people if they
only knew it. But they don’t . . . and so they waste beautiful energy
moving heaven and earth to bring things together that _don’t_ belong.
And you, Paul . . . why, you’ve grown! You’re half a head taller than
when you were here before.”

“Yes, I’ve begun to grow like pigweed in the night, as Mrs. Lynde
says,” said Paul, in frank delight over the fact. “Grandma says it’s
the porridge taking effect at last. Perhaps it is. Goodness knows . .
.” Paul sighed deeply . . . “I’ve eaten enough to make anyone grow. I
do hope, now that I’ve begun, I’ll keep on till I’m as tall as father.
He is six feet, you know, Miss Lavendar.”

Yes, Miss Lavendar did know; the flush on her pretty cheeks deepened a
little; she took Paul’s hand on one side and Anne’s on the other and
walked to the house in silence.

“Is it a good day for the echoes, Miss Lavendar?” queried Paul
anxiously. The day of his first visit had been too windy for echoes and
Paul had been much disappointed.

“Yes, just the best kind of a day,” answered Miss Lavendar, rousing
herself from her reverie. “But first we are all going to have something
to eat. I know you two folks didn’t walk all the way back here through
those beechwoods without getting hungry, and Charlotta the Fourth and I
can eat any hour of the day . . . we have such obliging appetites. So
we’ll just make a raid on the pantry. Fortunately it’s lovely and full.
I had a presentiment that I was going to have company today and
Charlotta the Fourth and I prepared.”

“I think you are one of the people who always have nice things in their
pantry,” declared Paul. “Grandma’s like that too. But she doesn’t
approve of snacks between meals. I wonder,” he added meditatively, “if
I _ought_ to eat them away from home when I know she doesn’t approve.”