“Oh, I don’t think she would disapprove after you have had a long walk.
That makes a difference,” said Miss Lavendar, exchanging amused glances
with Anne over Paul’s brown curls. “I suppose that snacks _are_
extremely unwholesome. That is why we have them so often at Echo Lodge.
We. . . Charlotta the Fourth and I . . . live in defiance of every
known law of diet. We eat all sorts of indigestible things whenever we
happen to think of it, by day or night; and we flourish like green bay
trees. We are always intending to reform. When we read any article in a
paper warning us against something we like we cut it out and pin it up
on the kitchen wall so that we’ll remember it. But we never can somehow
. . . until after we’ve gone and eaten that very thing. Nothing has
ever killed us yet; but Charlotta the Fourth has been known to have bad
dreams after we had eaten doughnuts and mince pie and fruit cake before
we went to bed.”

“Grandma lets me have a glass of milk and a slice of bread and butter
before I go to bed; and on Sunday nights she puts jam on the bread,”
said Paul. “So I’m always glad when it’s Sunday night . . . for more
reasons than one. Sunday is a very long day on the shore road. Grandma
says it’s all too short for her and that father never found Sundays
tiresome when he was a little boy. It wouldn’t seem so long if I could
talk to my rock people but I never do that because Grandma doesn’t
approve of it on Sundays. I think a good deal; but I’m afraid my
thoughts are worldly. Grandma says we should never think anything but
religious thoughts on Sundays. But teacher here said once that every
really beautiful thought was religious, no matter what it was about, or
what day we thought it on. But I feel sure Grandma thinks that sermons
and Sunday School lessons are the only things you can think truly
religious thoughts about. And when it comes to a difference of opinion
between Grandma and teacher I don’t know what to do. In my heart” . . .
Paul laid his hand on his breast and raised very serious blue eyes to
Miss Lavendar’s immediately sympathetic face . . . “I agree with
teacher. But then, you see, Grandma has brought father up _her_ way and
made a brilliant success of him; and teacher has never brought anybody
up yet, though she’s helping with Davy and Dora. But you can’t tell how
they’ll turn out till they _are_ grown up. So sometimes I feel as if it
might be safer to go by Grandma’s opinions.”