“I think it would,” agreed Anne solemnly. “Anyway, I daresay that if
your Grandma and I both got down to what we really do mean, under our
different ways of expressing it, we’d find out we both meant much the
same thing. You’d better go by her way of expressing it, since it’s
been the result of experience. We’ll have to wait until we see how the
twins do turn out before we can be sure that my way is equally good.”
After lunch they went back to the garden, where Paul made the
acquaintance of the echoes, to his wonder and delight, while Anne and
Miss Lavendar sat on the stone bench under the poplar and talked.

“So you are going away in the fall?” said Miss Lavendar wistfully. “I
ought to be glad for your sake, Anne . . . but I’m horribly, selfishly
sorry. I shall miss you so much. Oh, sometimes, I think it is of no use
to make friends. They only go out of your life after awhile and leave a
hurt that is worse than the emptiness before they came.”

“That sounds like something Miss Eliza Andrews might say but never Miss
Lavendar,” said Anne. “_Nothing_ is worse than emptiness . . . and I’m
not going out of your life. There are such things as letters and
vacations. Dearest, I’m afraid you’re looking a little pale and tired.”

“Oh . . . hoo . . . hoo . . . hoo,” went Paul on the dyke, where he had
been making noises diligently . . . not all of them melodious in the
making, but all coming back transmuted into the very gold and silver of
sound by the fairy alchemists over the river. Miss Lavendar made an
impatient movement with her pretty hands.

“I’m just tired of everything . . . even of the echoes. There is
nothing in my life but echoes . . . echoes of lost hopes and dreams and
joys. They’re beautiful and mocking. Oh Anne, it’s horrid of me to talk
like this when I have company. It’s just that I’m getting old and it
doesn’t agree with me. I know I’ll be fearfully cranky by the time I’m
sixty. But perhaps all I need is a course of blue pills.” At this
moment Charlotta the Fourth, who had disappeared after lunch, returned,
and announced that the northeast corner of Mr. John Kimball’s pasture
was red with early strawberries, and wouldn’t Miss Shirley like to go
and pick some.

“Early strawberries for tea!” exclaimed Miss Lavendar. “Oh, I’m not so
old as I thought . . . and I don’t need a single blue pill! Girls, when
you come back with your strawberries we’ll have tea out here under the
silver poplar. I’ll have it all ready for you with home-grown cream.”

Anne and Charlotta the Fourth accordingly betook themselves back to Mr.
Kimball’s pasture, a green remote place where the air was as soft as
velvet and fragrant as a bed of violets and golden as amber.