“Oh, isn’t it sweet and fresh back here?” breathed Anne. “I just feel
as if I were drinking in the sunshine.”

“Yes, ma’am, so do I. That’s just exactly how I feel too, ma’am,”
agreed Charlotta the Fourth, who would have said precisely the same
thing if Anne had remarked that she felt like a pelican of the
wilderness. Always after Anne had visited Echo Lodge Charlotta the
Fourth mounted to her little room over the kitchen and tried before her
looking glass to speak and look and move like Anne. Charlotta could
never flatter herself that she quite succeeded; but practice makes
perfect, as Charlotta had learned at school, and she fondly hoped that
in time she might catch the trick of that dainty uplift of chin, that
quick, starry outflashing of eyes, that fashion of walking as if you
were a bough swaying in the wind. It seemed so easy when you watched
Anne. Charlotta the Fourth admired Anne wholeheartedly. It was not that
she thought her so very handsome. Diana Barry’s beauty of crimson cheek
and black curls was much more to Charlotta the Fourth’s taste than
Anne’s moonshine charm of luminous gray eyes and the pale, everchanging
roses of her cheeks.

“But I’d rather look like you than be pretty,” she told Anne sincerely.

Anne laughed, sipped the honey from the tribute, and cast away the
sting. She was used to taking her compliments mixed. Public opinion
never agreed on Anne’s looks. People who had heard her called handsome
met her and were disappointed. People who had heard her called plain
saw her and wondered where other people’s eyes were. Anne herself would
never believe that she had any claim to beauty. When she looked in the
glass all she saw was a little pale face with seven freckles on the
nose thereof. Her mirror never revealed to her the elusive,
ever-varying play of feeling that came and went over her features like
a rosy illuminating flame, or the charm of dream and laughter
alternating in her big eyes.

While Anne was not beautiful in any strictly defined sense of the word
she possessed a certain evasive charm and distinction of appearance
that left beholders with a pleasurable sense of satisfaction in that
softly rounded girlhood of hers, with all its strongly felt
potentialities. Those who knew Anne best felt, without realizing that
they felt it, that her greatest attraction was the aura of possibility
surrounding her. . . the power of future development that was in her.
She seemed to walk in an atmosphere of things about to happen.

As they picked, Charlotta the Fourth confided to Anne her fears
regarding Miss Lavendar. The warm-hearted little handmaiden was
honestly worried over her adored mistress’ condition.