“Miss Lavendar isn’t well, Miss Shirley, ma’am. I’m sure she isn’t,
though she never complains. She hasn’t seemed like herself this long
while, ma’am . . . not since that day you and Paul were here together
before. I feel sure she caught cold that night, ma’am. After you and
him had gone she went out and walked in the garden for long after dark
with nothing but a little shawl on her. There was a lot of snow on the
walks and I feel sure she got a chill, ma’am. Ever since then I’ve
noticed her acting tired and lonesome like. She don’t seem to take an
interest in anything, ma’am. She never pretends company’s coming, nor
fixes up for it, nor nothing, ma’am. It’s only when you come she seems
to chirk up a bit. And the worst sign of all, Miss Shirley, ma’am . .
.” Charlotta the Fourth lowered her voice as if she were about to tell
some exceedingly weird and awful symptom indeed . . . “is that she
never gets cross now when I breaks things. Why, Miss Shirley, ma’am,
yesterday I bruk her green and yaller bowl that’s always stood on the
bookcase. Her grandmother brought it out from England and Miss Lavendar
was awful choice of it. I was dusting it just as careful, Miss Shirley,
ma’am, and it slipped out, so fashion, afore I could grab holt of it,
and bruk into about forty millyun pieces. I tell you I was sorry and
scared. I thought Miss Lavendar would scold me awful, ma’am; and I’d
ruther she had than take it the way she did. She just come in and
hardly looked at it and said, ‘It’s no matter, Charlotta. Take up the
pieces and throw them away.’ Just like that, Miss Shirley, ma’am . . .
‘take up the pieces and throw them away,’ as if it wasn’t her
grandmother’s bowl from England. Oh, she isn’t well and I feel awful
bad about it. She’s got nobody to look after her but me.”

Charlotta the Fourth’s eyes brimmed up with tears. Anne patted the
little brown paw holding the cracked pink cup sympathetically.

“I think Miss Lavendar needs a change, Charlotta. She stays here alone
too much. Can’t we induce her to go away for a little trip?”

Charlotta shook her head, with its rampant bows, disconsolately.