“I don’t think so, Miss Shirley, ma’am. Miss Lavendar hates visiting.
She’s only got three relations she ever visits and she says she just
goes to see them as a family duty. Last time when she come home she
said she wasn’t going to visit for family duty no more. ‘I’ve come home
in love with loneliness, Charlotta,’ she says to me, ‘and I never want
to stray from my own vine and fig tree again. My relations try so hard
to make an old lady of me and it has a bad effect on me.’ Just like
that, Miss Shirley, ma’am. ‘It has a very bad effect on me.’ So I don’t
think it would do any good to coax her to go visiting.”

“We must see what can be done,” said Anne decidedly, as she put the
last possible berry in her pink cup. “Just as soon as I have my
vacation I’ll come through and spend a whole week with you. We’ll have
a picnic every day and pretend all sorts of interesting things, and see
if we can’t cheer Miss Lavendar up.”

“That will be the very thing, Miss Shirley, ma’am,” exclaimed Charlotta
the Fourth in rapture. She was glad for Miss Lavendar’s sake and for
her own too. With a whole week in which to study Anne constantly she
would surely be able to learn how to move and behave like her.

When the girls got back to Echo Lodge they found that Miss Lavendar and
Paul had carried the little square table out of the kitchen to the
garden and had everything ready for tea. Nothing ever tasted so
delicious as those strawberries and cream, eaten under a great blue sky
all curdled over with fluffy little white clouds, and in the long
shadows of the wood with its lispings and its murmurings. After tea
Anne helped Charlotta wash the dishes in the kitchen, while Miss
Lavendar sat on the stone bench with Paul and heard all about his rock
people. She was a good listener, this sweet Miss Lavendar, but just at
the last it struck Paul that she had suddenly lost interest in the Twin
Sailors.

“Miss Lavendar, why do you look at me like that?” he asked gravely.

“How do I look, Paul?”

“Just as if you were looking through me at somebody I put you in mind
of,” said Paul, who had such occasional flashes of uncanny insight that
it wasn’t quite safe to have secrets when he was about.

“You do put me in mind of somebody I knew long ago,” said Miss Lavendar
dreamily.

“When you were young?”

“Yes, when I was young. Do I seem very old to you, Paul?”