“I never dreamed father was coming,” he said radiantly. “Even Grandma
didn’t know it. It was a great surprise. As a general thing . . .” Paul
shook his brown curls gravely . . . “I don’t like to be surprised. You
lose all the fun of expecting things when you’re surprised. But in a
case like this it is all right. Father came last night after I had gone
to bed. And after Grandma and Mary Joe had stopped being surprised he
and Grandma came upstairs to look at me, not meaning to wake me up till
morning. But I woke right up and saw father. I tell you I just sprang
at him.”

“With a hug like a bear’s,” said Mr. Irving, putting his arms around
Paul’s shoulder smilingly. “I hardly knew my boy, he had grown so big
and brown and sturdy.”

“I don’t know which was the most pleased to see father, Grandma or I,”
continued Paul. “Grandma’s been in kitchen all day making the things
father likes to eat. She wouldn’t trust them to Mary Joe, she says.
That’s _her_ way of showing gladness. _I_ like best just to sit and
talk to father. But I’m going to leave you for a little while now if
you’ll excuse me. I must get the cows for Mary Joe. That is one of my
daily duties.”

When Paul had scampered away to do his “daily duty” Mr. Irving talked
to Anne of various matters. But Anne felt that he was thinking of
something else underneath all the time. Presently it came to the
surface.

“In Paul’s last letter he spoke of going with you to visit an old . . .
friend of mine . . . Miss Lewis at the stone house in Grafton. Do you
know her well?”

“Yes, indeed, she is a _very_ dear friend of mine,” was Anne’s demure
reply, which gave no hint of the sudden thrill that tingled over her
from head to foot at Mr. Irving’s question. Anne “felt instinctively”
that romance was peeping at her around a corner.

Mr. Irving rose and went to the window, looking out on a great, golden,
billowing sea where a wild wind was harping. For a few moments there
was silence in the little dark-walled room. Then he turned and looked
down into Anne’s sympathetic face with a smile, half-whimsical,
half-tender.

“I wonder how much you know,” he said.

“I know all about it,” replied Anne promptly. “You see,” she explained
hastily, “Miss Lavendar and I are very intimate. She wouldn’t tell
things of such a sacred nature to everybody. We are kindred spirits.”

“Yes, I believe you are. Well, I am going to ask a favor of you. I
would like to go and see Miss Lavendar if she will let me. Will you ask
her if I may come?”