They went through the form of having tea as usual that night at Echo
Lodge; but nobody really ate anything. After tea Miss Lavendar went to
her room and put on her new forget-me-not organdy, while Anne did her
hair for her. Both were dreadfully excited; but Miss Lavendar pretended
to be very calm and indifferent.

“I must really mend that rent in the curtain tomorrow,” she said
anxiously, inspecting it as if it were the only thing of any importance
just then. “Those curtains have not worn as well as they should,
considering the price I paid. Dear me, Charlotta has forgotten to dust
the stair railing _again_. I really _must_ speak to her about it.”

Anne was sitting on the porch steps when Stephen Irving came down the
lane and across the garden.

“This is the one place where time stands still,” he said, looking
around him with delighted eyes. “There is nothing changed about this
house or garden since I was here twenty-five years ago. It makes me
feel young again.”

“You know time always does stand still in an enchanted palace,” said
Anne seriously. “It is only when the prince comes that things begin to
happen.”

Mr. Irving smiled a little sadly into her uplifted face, all astar with
its youth and promise.

“Sometimes the prince comes too late,” he said. He did not ask Anne to
translate her remark into prose. Like all kindred spirits he
“understood.”

“Oh, no, not if he is the real prince coming to the true princess,”
said Anne, shaking her red head decidedly, as she opened the parlor
door. When he had gone in she shut it tightly behind him and turned to
confront Charlotta the Fourth, who was in the hall, all “nods and becks
and wreathed smiles.”

“Oh, Miss Shirley, ma’am,” she breathed, “I peeked from the kitchen
window . . . and he’s awful handsome . . . and just the right age for
Miss Lavendar. And oh, Miss Shirley, ma’am, do you think it would be
much harm to listen at the door?”

“It would be dreadful, Charlotta,” said Anne firmly, “so just you come
away with me out of the reach of temptation.”

“I can’t do anything, and it’s awful to hang round just waiting,”
sighed Charlotta. “What if he don’t propose after all, Miss Shirley,
ma’am? You can never be sure of them men. My older sister, Charlotta
the First, thought she was engaged to one once. But it turned out _he_
had a different opinion and she says she’ll never trust one of them
again. And I heard of another case where a man thought he wanted one
girl awful bad when it was really her sister he wanted all the time.
When a man don’t know his own mind, Miss Shirley, ma’am, how’s a poor
woman going to be sure of it?”