“I knew I could trust father to pick me out a nice little second
mother,” he said proudly. “It’s a fine thing to have a father you can
depend on, teacher. I just love Miss Lavendar. Grandma is pleased, too.
She says she’s real glad father didn’t pick out an American for his
second wife, because, although it turned out all right the first time,
such a thing wouldn’t be likely to happen twice. Mrs. Lynde says she
thoroughly approves of the match and thinks its likely Miss Lavendar
will give up her queer notions and be like other people, now that she’s
going to be married. But I hope she won’t give her queer notions up,
teacher, because I like them. And I don’t want her to be like other
people. There are too many other people around as it is. _You_ know,
teacher.”

Charlotta the Fourth was another radiant person.

“Oh, Miss Shirley, ma’am, it has all turned out so beautiful. When Mr.
Irving and Miss Lavendar come back from their tower I’m to go up to
Boston and live with them . . . and me only fifteen, and the other
girls never went till they were sixteen. Ain’t Mr. Irving splendid? He
just worships the ground she treads on and it makes me feel so queer
sometimes to see the look in his eyes when he’s watching her. It
beggars description, Miss Shirley, ma’am. I’m awful thankful they’re so
fond of each other. It’s the best way, when all’s said and done, though
some folks can get along without it. I’ve got an aunt who has been
married three times and says she married the first time for love and
the last two times for strictly business, and was happy with all three
except at the times of the funerals. But I think she took a resk, Miss
Shirley, ma’am.”

“Oh, it’s all so romantic,” breathed Anne to Marilla that night. “If I
hadn’t taken the wrong path that day we went to Mr. Kimball’s I’d never
have known Miss Lavendar; and if I hadn’t met her I’d never have taken
Paul there . . . and he’d never have written to his father about
visiting Miss Lavendar just as Mr. Irving was starting for San
Francisco. Mr. Irving says whenever he got that letter he made up his
mind to send his partner to San Francisco and come here instead. He
hadn’t heard anything of Miss Lavendar for fifteen years. Somebody had
told him then that she was to be married and he thought she was and
never asked anybody anything about her. And now everything has come
right. And I had a hand in bringing it about. Perhaps, as Mrs. Lynde
says, everything is foreordained and it was bound to happen anyway. But
even so, it’s nice to think one was an instrument used by
predestination. Yes indeed, it’s very romantic.”