“The last Wednesday in August. They are to be married in the garden
under the honeysuckle trellis . . . the very spot where Mr. Irving
proposed to her twenty-five years ago. Marilla, that _is_ romantic,
even in prose. There’s to be nobody there except Mrs. Irving and Paul
and Gilbert and Diana and I, and Miss Lavendar’s cousins. And they will
leave on the six o’clock train for a trip to the Pacific coast. When
they come back in the fall Paul and Charlotta the Fourth are to go up
to Boston to live with them. But Echo Lodge is to be left just as it
is. . . only of course they’ll sell the hens and cow, and board up the
windows . . . and every summer they’re coming down to live in it. I’m
so glad. It would have hurt me dreadfully next winter at Redmond to
think of that dear stone house all stripped and deserted, with empty
rooms . . . or far worse still, with other people living in it. But I
can think of it now, just as I’ve always seen it, waiting happily for
the summer to bring life and laughter back to it again.”

There was more romance in the world than that which had fallen to the
share of the middle-aged lovers of the stone house. Anne stumbled
suddenly on it one evening when she went over to Orchard Slope by the
wood cut and came out into the Barry garden. Diana Barry and Fred
Wright were standing together under the big willow. Diana was leaning
against the gray trunk, her lashes cast down on very crimson cheeks.
One hand was held by Fred, who stood with his face bent toward her,
stammering something in low earnest tones. There were no other people
in the world except their two selves at that magic moment; so neither
of them saw Anne, who, after one dazed glance of comprehension, turned
and sped noiselessly back through the spruce wood, never stopping till
she gained her own gable room, where she sat breathlessly down by her
window and tried to collect her scattered wits.

“Diana and Fred are in love with each other,” she gasped. “Oh, it does
seem so . . . so . . . so _hopelessly_ grown up.”

Anne, of late, had not been without her suspicions that Diana was
proving false to the melancholy Byronic hero of her early dreams. But
as “things seen are mightier than things heard,” or suspected, the
realization that it was actually so came to her with almost the shock
of perfect surprise. This was succeeded by a queer, little lonely
feeling . . . as if, somehow, Diana had gone forward into a new world,
shutting a gate behind her, leaving Anne on the outside.