“I didn’t think you’d make fun of me, Anne,” she said reproachfully.

“Dearest, I wasn’t making fun of you,” cried Anne repentantly. “I was
only teasing you a bit. I think you’ll make the sweetest little
housekeeper in the world. And I think it’s perfectly lovely of you to
be planning already for your home o’dreams.”

Anne had no sooner uttered the phrase, “home o’dreams,” than it
captivated her fancy and she immediately began the erection of one of
her own. It was, of course, tenanted by an ideal master, dark, proud,
and melancholy; but oddly enough, Gilbert Blythe persisted in hanging
about too, helping her arrange pictures, lay out gardens, and
accomplish sundry other tasks which a proud and melancholy hero
evidently considered beneath his dignity. Anne tried to banish
Gilbert’s image from her castle in Spain but, somehow, he went on being
there, so Anne, being in a hurry, gave up the attempt and pursued her
aerial architecture with such success that her “home o’dreams” was
built and furnished before Diana spoke again.

“I suppose, Anne, you must think it’s funny I should like Fred so well
when he’s so different from the kind of man I’ve always said I would
marry . . . the tall, slender kind? But somehow I wouldn’t want Fred to
be tall and slender . . . because, don’t you see, he wouldn’t be Fred
then. Of course,” added Diana rather dolefully, “we will be a
dreadfully pudgy couple. But after all that’s better than one of us
being short and fat and the other tall and lean, like Morgan Sloane and
his wife. Mrs. Lynde says it always makes her think of the long and
short of it when she sees them together.”

“Well,” said Anne to herself that night, as she brushed her hair before
her gilt framed mirror, “I am glad Diana is so happy and satisfied. But
when my turn comes . . . if it ever does . . . I do hope there’ll be
something a little more thrilling about it. But then Diana thought so
too, once. I’ve heard her say time and again she’d never get engaged
any poky commonplace way . . . he’d _have_ to do something splendid to
win her. But she has changed. Perhaps I’ll change too. But I won’t . .
. and I’m determined I won’t. Oh, I think these engagements are
dreadfully unsettling things when they happen to your intimate
friends.”

XXX
A Wedding at the Stone House