The last week in August came. Miss Lavendar was to be married in it.
Two weeks later Anne and Gilbert would leave for Redmond College. In a
week’s time Mrs. Rachel Lynde would move to Green Gables and set up her
lares and penates in the erstwhile spare room, which was already
prepared for her coming. She had sold all her superfluous household
plenishings by auction and was at present reveling in the congenial
occupation of helping the Allans pack up. Mr. Allan was to preach his
farewell sermon the next Sunday. The old order was changing rapidly to
give place to the new, as Anne felt with a little sadness threading all
her excitement and happiness.

“Changes ain’t totally pleasant but they’re excellent things,” said Mr.
Harrison philosophically. “Two years is about long enough for things to
stay exactly the same. If they stayed put any longer they might grow
mossy.”

Mr. Harrison was smoking on his veranda. His wife had
self-sacrificingly told that he might smoke in the house if he took
care to sit by an open window. Mr. Harrison rewarded this concession by
going outdoors altogether to smoke in fine weather, and so mutual
goodwill reigned.

Anne had come over to ask Mrs. Harrison for some of her yellow dahlias.
She and Diana were going through to Echo Lodge that evening to help
Miss Lavendar and Charlotta the Fourth with their final preparations
for the morrow’s bridal. Miss Lavendar herself never had dahlias; she
did not like them and they would not have suited the fine retirement of
her old-fashioned garden. But flowers of any kind were rather scarce in
Avonlea and the neighboring districts that summer, thanks to Uncle
Abe’s storm; and Anne and Diana thought that a certain old
cream-colored stone jug, usually kept sacred to doughnuts, brimmed over
with yellow dahlias, would be just the thing to set in a dim angle of
the stone house stairs, against the dark background of red hall paper.

“I s’pose you’ll be starting off for college in a fortnight’s time?”
continued Mr. Harrison. “Well, we’re going to miss you an awful lot,
Emily and me. To be sure, Mrs. Lynde’ll be over there in your place.
There ain’t nobody but a substitute can be found for them.”

The irony of Mr. Harrison’s tone is quite untransferable to paper. In
spite of his wife’s intimacy with Mrs. Lynde, the best that could be
said of the relationship between her and Mr. Harrison even under the
new regime, was that they preserved an armed neutrality.

“Yes, I’m going,” said Anne. “I’m very glad with my head . . . and very
sorry with my heart.”

“I s’pose you’ll be scooping up all the honors that are lying round
loose at Redmond.”