“I may try for one or two of them,” confessed Anne, “but I don’t care
so much for things like that as I did two years ago. What I want to get
out of my college course is some knowledge of the best way of living
life and doing the most and best with it. I want to learn to understand
and help other people and myself.”

Mr. Harrison nodded.

“That’s the idea exactly. That’s what college ought to be for, instead
of for turning out a lot of B.A.‘s, so chock full of book-learning and
vanity that there ain’t room for anything else. You’re all right.
College won’t be able to do you much harm, I reckon.”

Diana and Anne drove over to Echo Lodge after tea, taking with them all
the flowery spoil that several predatory expeditions in their own and
their neighbors’ gardens had yielded. They found the stone house agog
with excitement. Charlotta the Fourth was flying around with such vim
and briskness that her blue bows seemed really to possess the power of
being everywhere at once. Like the helmet of Navarre, Charlotta’s blue
bows waved ever in the thickest of the fray.

“Praise be to goodness you’ve come,” she said devoutly, “for there’s
heaps of things to do . . . and the frosting on that cake _won’t_
harden . . . and there’s all the silver to be rubbed up yet . . . and
the horsehair trunk to be packed . . . and the roosters for the chicken
salad are running out there beyant the henhouse yet, _crowing_, Miss
Shirley, ma’am. And Miss Lavendar ain’t to be trusted to do a thing. I
was thankful when Mr. Irving came a few minutes ago and took her off
for a walk in the woods. Courting’s all right in its place, Miss
Shirley, ma’am, but if you try to mix it up with cooking and scouring
everything’s spoiled. That’s _my_ opinion, Miss Shirley, ma’am.”

Anne and Diana worked so heartily that by ten o’clock even Charlotta
the Fourth was satisfied. She braided her hair in innumerable plaits
and took her weary little bones off to bed.

“But I’m sure I shan’t sleep a blessed wink, Miss Shirley, ma’am, for
fear that something’ll go wrong at the last minute . . . the cream
won’t whip . . . or Mr. Irving’ll have a stroke and not be able to
come.”

“He isn’t in the habit of having strokes, is he?” asked Diana, the
dimpled corners of her mouth twitching. To Diana, Charlotta the Fourth
was, if not exactly a thing of beauty, certainly a joy forever.