“They’re not things that go by habit,” said Charlotta the Fourth with
dignity. “They just _happen_ . . . and there you are. _Anybody_ can
have a stroke. You don’t have to learn how. Mr. Irving looks a lot like
an uncle of mine that had one once just as he was sitting down to
dinner one day. But maybe everything’ll go all right. In this world
you’ve just got to hope for the best and prepare for the worst and take
whatever God sends.”

“The only thing I’m worried about is that it won’t be fine tomorrow,”
said Diana. “Uncle Abe predicted rain for the middle of the week, and
ever since the big storm I can’t help believing there’s a good deal in
what Uncle Abe says.”

Anne, who knew better than Diana just how much Uncle Abe had to do with
the storm, was not much disturbed by this. She slept the sleep of the
just and weary, and was roused at an unearthly hour by Charlotta the
Fourth.

“Oh, Miss Shirley, ma’am, it’s awful to call you so early,” came
wailing through the keyhole, “but there’s so much to do yet . . . and
oh, Miss Shirley, ma’am, I’m skeered it’s going to rain and I wish
you’d get up and tell me you think it ain’t.” Anne flew to the window,
hoping against hope that Charlotta the Fourth was saying this merely by
way of rousing her effectually. But alas, the morning did look
unpropitious. Below the window Miss Lavendar’s garden, which should
have been a glory of pale virgin sunshine, lay dim and windless; and
the sky over the firs was dark with moody clouds.

“Isn’t it too mean!” said Diana.

“We must hope for the best,” said Anne determinedly. “If it only
doesn’t actually rain, a cool, pearly gray day like this would really
be nicer than hot sunshine.”

“But it will rain,” mourned Charlotta, creeping into the room, a figure
of fun, with her many braids wound about her head, the ends, tied up
with white thread, sticking out in all directions. “It’ll hold off till
the last minute and then pour cats and dogs. And all the folks will get
sopping . . . and track mud all over the house . . . and they won’t be
able to be married under the honeysuckle . . . and it’s awful unlucky
for no sun to shine on a bride, say what you will, Miss Shirley, ma’am.
I _knew_ things were going too well to last.”

Charlotta the Fourth seemed certainly to have borrowed a leaf out of
Miss Eliza Andrews’ book.

It did not rain, though it kept on looking as if it meant to. By noon
the rooms were decorated, the table beautifully laid; and upstairs was
waiting a bride, “adorned for her husband.”

“You do look sweet,” said Anne rapturously.

“Lovely,” echoed Diana.