“Everything’s ready, Miss Shirley, ma’am, and nothing dreadful has
happened _yet_,” was Charlotta’s cheerful statement as she betook
herself to her little back room to dress. Out came all the braids; the
resultant rampant crinkliness was plaited into two tails and tied, not
with two bows alone, but with four, of brand-new ribbon, brightly blue.
The two upper bows rather gave the impression of overgrown wings
sprouting from Charlotta’s neck, somewhat after the fashion of
Raphael’s cherubs. But Charlotta the Fourth thought them very
beautiful, and after she had rustled into a white dress, so stiffly
starched that it could stand alone, she surveyed herself in her glass
with great satisfaction . . . a satisfaction which lasted until she
went out in the hall and caught a glimpse through the spare room door
of a tall girl in some softly clinging gown, pinning white, star-like
flowers on the smooth ripples of her ruddy hair.

“Oh, I’ll _never_ be able to look like Miss Shirley,” thought poor
Charlotta despairingly. “You just have to be born so, I guess . . .
don’t seem’s if any amount of practice could give you that _air_.”

By one o’clock the guests had come, including Mr. and Mrs. Allan, for
Mr. Allan was to perform the ceremony in the absence of the Grafton
minister on his vacation. There was no formality about the marriage.
Miss Lavendar came down the stairs to meet her bridegroom at the foot,
and as he took her hand she lifted her big brown eyes to his with a
look that made Charlotta the Fourth, who intercepted it, feel queerer
than ever. They went out to the honeysuckle arbor, where Mr. Allan was
awaiting them. The guests grouped themselves as they pleased. Anne and
Diana stood by the old stone bench, with Charlotta the Fourth between
them, desperately clutching their hands in her cold, tremulous little
paws.

Mr. Allan opened his blue book and the ceremony proceeded. Just as Miss
Lavendar and Stephen Irving were pronounced man and wife a very
beautiful and symbolic thing happened. The sun suddenly burst through
the gray and poured a flood of radiance on the happy bride. Instantly
the garden was alive with dancing shadows and flickering lights.

“What a lovely omen,” thought Anne, as she ran to kiss the bride. Then
the three girls left the rest of the guests laughing around the bridal
pair while they flew into the house to see that all was in readiness
for the feast.

“Thanks be to goodness, it’s over, Miss Shirley, ma’am,” breathed
Charlotta the Fourth, “and they’re married safe and sound, no matter
what happens now. The bags of rice are in the pantry, ma’am, and the
old shoes are behind the door, and the cream for whipping is on the
sullar steps.”