At half past two Mr. and Mrs. Irving left, and everybody went to Bright
River to see them off on the afternoon train. As Miss Lavendar . . . I
beg her pardon, Mrs. Irving . . . stepped from the door of her old home
Gilbert and the girls threw the rice and Charlotta the Fourth hurled an
old shoe with such excellent aim that she struck Mr. Allan squarely on
the head. But it was reserved for Paul to give the prettiest send-off.
He popped out of the porch ringing furiously a huge old brass dinner
bell which had adorned the dining room mantel. Paul’s only motive was
to make a joyful noise; but as the clangor died away, from point and
curve and hill across the river came the chime of “fairy wedding
bells,” ringing clearly, sweetly, faintly and more faint, as if Miss
Lavendar’s beloved echoes were bidding her greeting and farewell. And
so, amid this benediction of sweet sounds, Miss Lavendar drove away
from the old life of dreams and make-believes to a fuller life of
realities in the busy world beyond.

Two hours later Anne and Charlotta the Fourth came down the lane again.
Gilbert had gone to West Grafton on an errand and Diana had to keep an
engagement at home. Anne and Charlotta had come back to put things in
order and lock up the little stone house. The garden was a pool of late
golden sunshine, with butterflies hovering and bees booming; but the
little house had already that indefinable air of desolation which
always follows a festivity.

“Oh dear me, don’t it look lonesome?” sniffed Charlotta the Fourth, who
had been crying all the way home from the station. “A wedding ain’t
much cheerfuller than a funeral after all, when it’s all over, Miss
Shirley, ma’am.”

A busy evening followed. The decorations had to be removed, the dishes
washed, the uneaten delicacies packed into a basket for the delectation
of Charlotta the Fourth’s young brothers at home. Anne would not rest
until everything was in apple-pie order; after Charlotta had gone home
with her plunder Anne went over the still rooms, feeling like one who
trod alone some banquet hall deserted, and closed the blinds. Then she
locked the door and sat down under the silver poplar to wait for
Gilbert, feeling very tired but still unweariedly thinking “long, long
thoughts.”

“What are you thinking of, Anne?” asked Gilbert, coming down the walk.
He had left his horse and buggy out at the road.

“Of Miss Lavendar and Mr. Irving,” answered Anne dreamily. “Isn’t it
beautiful to think how everything has turned out . . . how they have
come together again after all the years of separation and
misunderstanding?”