“Bad boy!” he said, “bad boy! to chase the colts. This is not the first
time, nor the second, but it shall be the last. There--take your money
and go home; I shall not want you on my farm again.” So we never saw
Dick any more. Old Daniel, the man who looked after the horses, was just
as gentle as our master, so we were well off.

02 The Hunt

Before I was two years old a circumstance happened which I have never
forgotten. It was early in the spring; there had been a little frost in
the night, and a light mist still hung over the woods and meadows. I
and the other colts were feeding at the lower part of the field when
we heard, quite in the distance, what sounded like the cry of dogs. The
oldest of the colts raised his head, pricked his ears, and said, “There
are the hounds!” and immediately cantered off, followed by the rest of
us to the upper part of the field, where we could look over the hedge
and see several fields beyond. My mother and an old riding horse of our
master's were also standing near, and seemed to know all about it.

“They have found a hare,” said my mother, “and if they come this way we
shall see the hunt.”

And soon the dogs were all tearing down the field of young wheat next
to ours. I never heard such a noise as they made. They did not bark, nor
howl, nor whine, but kept on a “yo! yo, o, o! yo! yo, o, o!” at the top
of their voices. After them came a number of men on horseback, some of
them in green coats, all galloping as fast as they could. The old horse
snorted and looked eagerly after them, and we young colts wanted to be
galloping with them, but they were soon away into the fields lower
down; here it seemed as if they had come to a stand; the dogs left off
barking, and ran about every way with their noses to the ground.

“They have lost the scent,” said the old horse; “perhaps the hare will
get off.”

“What hare?” I said.

“Oh! I don't know what hare; likely enough it may be one of our own
hares out of the woods; any hare they can find will do for the dogs and
men to run after;” and before long the dogs began their “yo! yo, o, o!”
 again, and back they came altogether at full speed, making straight for
our meadow at the part where the high bank and hedge overhang the brook.