Next came the saddle, but that was not half so bad; my master put it
on my back very gently, while old Daniel held my head; he then made the
girths fast under my body, patting and talking to me all the time; then
I had a few oats, then a little leading about; and this he did every
day till I began to look for the oats and the saddle. At length, one
morning, my master got on my back and rode me round the meadow on the
soft grass. It certainly did feel queer; but I must say I felt rather
proud to carry my master, and as he continued to ride me a little every
day I soon became accustomed to it.

The next unpleasant business was putting on the iron shoes; that too was
very hard at first. My master went with me to the smith's forge, to see
that I was not hurt or got any fright. The blacksmith took my feet in
his hand, one after the other, and cut away some of the hoof. It did not
pain me, so I stood still on three legs till he had done them all. Then
he took a piece of iron the shape of my foot, and clapped it on, and
drove some nails through the shoe quite into my hoof, so that the shoe
was firmly on. My feet felt very stiff and heavy, but in time I got used
to it.

And now having got so far, my master went on to break me to harness;
there were more new things to wear. First, a stiff heavy collar just
on my neck, and a bridle with great side-pieces against my eyes called
blinkers, and blinkers indeed they were, for I could not see on either
side, but only straight in front of me; next, there was a small saddle
with a nasty stiff strap that went right under my tail; that was the
crupper. I hated the crupper; to have my long tail doubled up and poked
through that strap was almost as bad as the bit. I never felt more like
kicking, but of course I could not kick such a good master, and so
in time I got used to everything, and could do my work as well as my
mother.

I must not forget to mention one part of my training, which I have
always considered a very great advantage. My master sent me for a
fortnight to a neighboring farmer's, who had a meadow which was skirted
on one side by the railway. Here were some sheep and cows, and I was
turned in among them.