“Because it has been all so different with me,” she replied. “I never
had any one, horse or man, that was kind to me, or that I cared to
please, for in the first place I was taken from my mother as soon as I
was weaned, and put with a lot of other young colts; none of them cared
for me, and I cared for none of them. There was no kind master like
yours to look after me, and talk to me, and bring me nice things to eat.
The man that had the care of us never gave me a kind word in my life.
I do not mean that he ill-used me, but he did not care for us one
bit further than to see that we had plenty to eat, and shelter in the
winter. A footpath ran through our field, and very often the great boys
passing through would fling stones to make us gallop. I was never hit,
but one fine young colt was badly cut in the face, and I should think
it would be a scar for life. We did not care for them, but of course
it made us more wild, and we settled it in our minds that boys were our
enemies. We had very good fun in the free meadows, galloping up and down
and chasing each other round and round the field; then standing still
under the shade of the trees. But when it came to breaking in, that was
a bad time for me; several men came to catch me, and when at last they
closed me in at one corner of the field, one caught me by the forelock,
another caught me by the nose and held it so tight I could hardly draw
my breath; then another took my under jaw in his hard hand and wrenched
my mouth open, and so by force they got on the halter and the bar into
my mouth; then one dragged me along by the halter, another flogging
behind, and this was the first experience I had of men's kindness; it
was all force. They did not give me a chance to know what they wanted.
I was high bred and had a great deal of spirit, and was very wild, no
doubt, and gave them, I dare say, plenty of trouble, but then it was
dreadful to be shut up in a stall day after day instead of having my
liberty, and I fretted and pined and wanted to get loose. You know
yourself it's bad enough when you have a kind master and plenty of
coaxing, but there was nothing of that sort for me.