I was sorry for Ginger, but of course I knew very little then, and I
thought most likely she made the worst of it; however, I found that as
the weeks went on she grew much more gentle and cheerful, and had lost
the watchful, defiant look that she used to turn on any strange person
who came near her; and one day James said, “I do believe that mare is
getting fond of me, she quite whinnied after me this morning when I had
been rubbing her forehead.”

“Ay, ay, Jim, 'tis 'the Birtwick balls',” said John, “she'll be as good
as Black Beauty by and by; kindness is all the physic she wants, poor
thing!” Master noticed the change, too, and one day when he got out of
the carriage and came to speak to us, as he often did, he stroked her
beautiful neck. “Well, my pretty one, well, how do things go with you
now? You are a good bit happier than when you came to us, I think.”

She put her nose up to him in a friendly, trustful way, while he rubbed
it gently.

“We shall make a cure of her, John,” he said.

“Yes, sir, she's wonderfully improved; she's not the same creature that
she was; it's 'the Birtwick balls', sir,” said John, laughing.

This was a little joke of John's; he used to say that a regular course
of “the Birtwick horseballs” would cure almost any vicious horse; these
balls, he said, were made up of patience and gentleness, firmness and
petting, one pound of each to be mixed up with half a pint of common
sense, and given to the horse every day.

09 Merrylegs

Mr. Blomefield, the vicar, had a large family of boys and girls;
sometimes they used to come and play with Miss Jessie and Flora. One
of the girls was as old as Miss Jessie; two of the boys were older, and
there were several little ones. When they came there was plenty of work
for Merrylegs, for nothing pleased them so much as getting on him by
turns and riding him all about the orchard and the home paddock, and
this they would do by the hour together.

One afternoon he had been out with them a long time, and when James
brought him in and put on his halter he said:

“There, you rogue, mind how you behave yourself, or we shall get into
trouble.”

“What have you been doing, Merrylegs?” I asked.

“Oh!” said he, tossing his little head, “I have only been giving those
young people a lesson; they did not know when they had had enough, nor
when I had had enough, so I just pitched them off backward; that was the
only thing they could understand.”

“What!” said I, “you threw the children off? I thought you did know
better than that! Did you throw Miss Jessie or Miss Flora?”

He looked very much offended, and said: