“No doubt you would,” said Merrylegs; “but then I am not quite such a
fool (begging your pardon) as to anger our master or make James ashamed
of me. Besides, those children are under my charge when they are riding;
I tell you they are intrusted to me. Why, only the other day I heard our
master say to Mrs. Blomefield, 'My dear madam, you need not be anxious
about the children; my old Merrylegs will take as much care of them as
you or I could; I assure you I would not sell that pony for any money,
he is so perfectly good-tempered and trustworthy;' and do you think I am
such an ungrateful brute as to forget all the kind treatment I have
had here for five years, and all the trust they place in me, and turn
vicious because a couple of ignorant boys used me badly? No, no! you
never had a good place where they were kind to you, and so you don't
know, and I'm sorry for you; but I can tell you good places make good
horses. I wouldn't vex our people for anything; I love them, I do,” said
Merrylegs, and he gave a low “ho, ho, ho!” through his nose, as he used
to do in the morning when he heard James' footstep at the door.

“Besides,” he went on, “if I took to kicking where should I be? Why,
sold off in a jiffy, and no character, and I might find myself slaved
about under a butcher's boy, or worked to death at some seaside place
where no one cared for me, except to find out how fast I could go, or be
flogged along in some cart with three or four great men in it going out
for a Sunday spree, as I have often seen in the place I lived in before
I came here; no,” said he, shaking his head, “I hope I shall never come
to that.”

10 A Talk in the Orchard

Ginger and I were not of the regular tall carriage horse breed, we had
more of the racing blood in us. We stood about fifteen and a half hands
high; we were therefore just as good for riding as we were for driving,
and our master used to say that he disliked either horse or man that
could do but one thing; and as he did not want to show off in London
parks, he preferred a more active and useful kind of horse. As for us,
our greatest pleasure was when we were saddled for a riding party; the
master on Ginger, the mistress on me, and the young ladies on Sir Oliver
and Merrylegs. It was so cheerful to be trotting and cantering all
together that it always put us in high spirits. I had the best of it,
for I always carried the mistress; her weight was little, her voice was
sweet, and her hand was so light on the rein that I was guided almost
without feeling it.