Oh! if people knew what a comfort to horses a light hand is, and how it
keeps a good mouth and a good temper, they surely would not chuck, and
drag, and pull at the rein as they often do. Our mouths are so tender
that where they have not been spoiled or hardened with bad or ignorant
treatment, they feel the slightest movement of the driver's hand, and
we know in an instant what is required of us. My mouth has never been
spoiled, and I believe that was why the mistress preferred me to Ginger,
although her paces were certainly quite as good. She used often to envy
me, and said it was all the fault of breaking in, and the gag bit in
London, that her mouth was not so perfect as mine; and then old Sir
Oliver would say, “There, there! don't vex yourself; you have the
greatest honor; a mare that can carry a tall man of our master's weight,
with all your spring and sprightly action, does not need to hold her
head down because she does not carry the lady; we horses must take
things as they come, and always be contented and willing so long as we
are kindly used.”

I had often wondered how it was that Sir Oliver had such a very short
tail; it really was only six or seven inches long, with a tassel of hair
hanging from it; and on one of our holidays in the orchard I ventured to
ask him by what accident it was that he had lost his tail. “Accident!”
 he snorted with a fierce look, “it was no accident! it was a cruel,
shameful, cold-blooded act! When I was young I was taken to a place
where these cruel things were done; I was tied up, and made fast so that
I could not stir, and then they came and cut off my long and beautiful
tail, through the flesh and through the bone, and took it away.

“How dreadful!” I exclaimed.

“Dreadful, ah! it was dreadful; but it was not only the pain, though
that was terrible and lasted a long time; it was not only the indignity
of having my best ornament taken from me, though that was bad; but it
was this, how could I ever brush the flies off my sides and my hind legs
any more? You who have tails just whisk the flies off without thinking
about it, and you can't tell what a torment it is to have them settle
upon you and sting and sting, and have nothing in the world to lash them
off with. I tell you it is a lifelong wrong, and a lifelong loss; but
thank heaven, they don't do it now.”

“What did they do it for then?” said Ginger.