“So do I,” said master, “as well as any man, but I don't like to
see them held up; that takes all the shine out of it. Now, you are a
military man, Langley, and no doubt like to see your regiment look well
on parade, 'heads up', and all that; but you would not take much credit
for your drill if all your men had their heads tied to a backboard! It
might not be much harm on parade, except to worry and fatigue them; but
how would it be in a bayonet charge against the enemy, when they want
the free use of every muscle, and all their strength thrown forward? I
would not give much for their chance of victory. And it is just the same
with horses: you fret and worry their tempers, and decrease their power;
you will not let them throw their weight against their work, and so
they have to do too much with their joints and muscles, and of course
it wears them up faster. You may depend upon it, horses were intended
to have their heads free, as free as men's are; and if we could act a
little more according to common sense, and a good deal less according
to fashion, we should find many things work easier; besides, you know as
well as I that if a horse makes a false step, he has much less chance
of recovering himself if his head and neck are fastened back. And now,”
 said the master, laughing, “I have given my hobby a good trot out, can't
you make up your mind to mount him, too, captain? Your example would go
a long way.”

“I believe you are right in theory,” said the other, “and that's rather
a hard hit about the soldiers; but--well--I'll think about it,” and so
they parted.

12 A Stormy Day

One day late in the autumn my master had a long journey to go on
business. I was put into the dog-cart, and John went with his master. I
always liked to go in the dog-cart, it was so light and the high wheels
ran along so pleasantly. There had been a great deal of rain, and now
the wind was very high and blew the dry leaves across the road in a
shower. We went along merrily till we came to the toll-bar and the low
wooden bridge. The river banks were rather high, and the bridge, instead
of rising, went across just level, so that in the middle, if the river
was full, the water would be nearly up to the woodwork and planks; but
as there were good substantial rails on each side, people did not mind
it.

The man at the gate said the river was rising fast, and he feared it
would be a bad night. Many of the meadows were under water, and in one
low part of the road the water was halfway up to my knees; the bottom
was good, and master drove gently, so it was no matter.