When we got to the town of course I had a good bait, but as the master's
business engaged him a long time we did not start for home till rather
late in the afternoon. The wind was then much higher, and I heard the
master say to John that he had never been out in such a storm; and so I
thought, as we went along the skirts of a wood, where the great branches
were swaying about like twigs, and the rushing sound was terrible.

“I wish we were well out of this wood,” said my master.

“Yes, sir,” said John, “it would be rather awkward if one of these
branches came down upon us.”

The words were scarcely out of his mouth when there was a groan, and a
crack, and a splitting sound, and tearing, crashing down among the other
trees came an oak, torn up by the roots, and it fell right across the
road just before us. I will never say I was not frightened, for I was. I
stopped still, and I believe I trembled; of course I did not turn round
or run away; I was not brought up to that. John jumped out and was in a
moment at my head.

“That was a very near touch,” said my master. “What's to be done now?”

“Well, sir, we can't drive over that tree, nor yet get round it; there
will be nothing for it, but to go back to the four crossways, and that
will be a good six miles before we get round to the wooden bridge again;
it will make us late, but the horse is fresh.”

So back we went and round by the crossroads, but by the time we got to
the bridge it was very nearly dark; we could just see that the water was
over the middle of it; but as that happened sometimes when the floods
were out, master did not stop. We were going along at a good pace, but
the moment my feet touched the first part of the bridge I felt sure
there was something wrong. I dare not go forward, and I made a dead
stop. “Go on, Beauty,” said my master, and he gave me a touch with the
whip, but I dare not stir; he gave me a sharp cut; I jumped, but I dare
not go forward.

“There's something wrong, sir,” said John, and he sprang out of the
dog-cart and came to my head and looked all about. He tried to lead me
forward. “Come on, Beauty, what's the matter?” Of course I could not
tell him, but I knew very well that the bridge was not safe.

Just then the man at the toll-gate on the other side ran out of the
house, tossing a torch about like one mad.

“Hoy, hoy, hoy! halloo! stop!” he cried.

“What's the matter?” shouted my master.

“The bridge is broken in the middle, and part of it is carried away; if
you come on you'll be into the river.”