One day when John and I had been out on some business of our master's,
and were returning gently on a long, straight road, at some distance we
saw a boy trying to leap a pony over a gate; the pony would not take the
leap, and the boy cut him with the whip, but he only turned off on one
side. He whipped him again, but the pony turned off on the other side.
Then the boy got off and gave him a hard thrashing, and knocked him
about the head; then he got up again and tried to make him leap the
gate, kicking him all the time shamefully, but still the pony refused.
When we were nearly at the spot the pony put down his head and threw up
his heels, and sent the boy neatly over into a broad quickset hedge, and
with the rein dangling from his head he set off home at a full gallop.
John laughed out quite loud. “Served him right,” he said.

“Oh, oh, oh!” cried the boy as he struggled about among the thorns; “I
say, come and help me out.”

“Thank ye,” said John, “I think you are quite in the right place, and
maybe a little scratching will teach you not to leap a pony over a gate
that is too high for him,” and so with that John rode off. “It may be,”
 said he to himself, “that young fellow is a liar as well as a cruel one;
we'll just go home by Farmer Bushby's, Beauty, and then if anybody wants
to know you and I can tell 'em, ye see.” So we turned off to the right,
and soon came up to the stack-yard, and within sight of the house. The
farmer was hurrying out into the road, and his wife was standing at the
gate, looking very frightened.

“Have you seen my boy?” said Mr. Bushby as we came up; “he went out an
hour ago on my black pony, and the creature is just come back without a
rider.”

“I should think, sir,” said John, “he had better be without a rider,
unless he can be ridden properly.”

“What do you mean?” said the farmer.

“Well, sir, I saw your son whipping, and kicking, and knocking that good
little pony about shamefully because he would not leap a gate that was
too high for him. The pony behaved well, sir, and showed no vice; but at
last he just threw up his heels and tipped the young gentleman into the
thorn hedge. He wanted me to help him out, but I hope you will excuse
me, sir, I did not feel inclined to do so. There's no bones broken, sir;
he'll only get a few scratches. I love horses, and it riles me to see
them badly used; it is a bad plan to aggravate an animal till he uses
his heels; the first time is not always the last.”