The master stood all this time grave and attentive, but as John finished
his speech a broad smile spread over his face, and looking kindly
across at James, who all this time had stood still at the door, he said,
“James, my lad, set down the oats and come here; I am very glad to find
that John's opinion of your character agrees so exactly with my own.
John is a cautious man,” he said, with a droll smile, “and it is not
always easy to get his opinion about people, so I thought if I beat the
bush on this side the birds would fly out, and I should learn what I
wanted to know quickly; so now we will come to business. I have a letter
from my brother-in-law, Sir Clifford Williams, of Clifford Hall.
He wants me to find him a trustworthy young groom, about twenty or
twenty-one, who knows his business. His old coachman, who has lived with
him thirty years, is getting feeble, and he wants a man to work with him
and get into his ways, who would be able, when the old man was pensioned
off, to step into his place. He would have eighteen shillings a week at
first, a stable suit, a driving suit, a bedroom over the coachhouse, and
a boy under him. Sir Clifford is a good master, and if you could get the
place it would be a good start for you. I don't want to part with you,
and if you left us I know John would lose his right hand.”

“That I should, sir,” said John, “but I would not stand in his light for
the world.”

“How old are you, James?” said master.

“Nineteen next May, sir.”

“That's young; what do you think, John?”

“Well, sir, it is young; but he is as steady as a man, and is strong,
and well grown, and though he has not had much experience in driving, he
has a light firm hand and a quick eye, and he is very careful, and I am
quite sure no horse of his will be ruined for want of having his feet
and shoes looked after.”

“Your word will go the furthest, John,” said the master, “for Sir
Clifford adds in a postscript, 'If I could find a man trained by your
John I should like him better than any other;' so, James, lad, think it
over, talk to your mother at dinner-time, and then let me know what you
wish.”