“Practice makes perfect,” said the crooked little hostler, “and 'twould
be a pity if it didn't; forty years' practice, and not perfect! ha, ha!
that would be a pity; and as to being quick, why, bless you! that is
only a matter of habit; if you get into the habit of being quick it is
just as easy as being slow; easier, I should say; in fact it don't agree
with my health to be hulking about over a job twice as long as it need
take. Bless you! I couldn't whistle if I crawled over my work as some
folks do! You see, I have been about horses ever since I was twelve
years old, in hunting stables, and racing stables; and being small, ye
see, I was jockey for several years; but at the Goodwood, ye see, the
turf was very slippery and my poor Larkspur got a fall, and I broke my
knee, and so of course I was of no more use there. But I could not live
without horses, of course I couldn't, so I took to the hotels. And I
can tell ye it is a downright pleasure to handle an animal like this,
well-bred, well-mannered, well-cared-for; bless ye! I can tell how a
horse is treated. Give me the handling of a horse for twenty minutes,
and I'll tell you what sort of a groom he has had. Look at this one,
pleasant, quiet, turns about just as you want him, holds up his feet to
be cleaned out, or anything else you please to wish; then you'll find
another fidgety, fretty, won't move the right way, or starts across the
stall, tosses up his head as soon as you come near him, lays his ears,
and seems afraid of you; or else squares about at you with his heels.
Poor things! I know what sort of treatment they have had. If they are
timid it makes them start or shy; if they are high-mettled it makes them
vicious or dangerous; their tempers are mostly made when they are young.
Bless you! they are like children, train 'em up in the way they should
go, as the good book says, and when they are old they will not depart
from it, if they have a chance.”

“I like to hear you talk,” said James, “that's the way we lay it down at
home, at our master's.”

“Who is your master, young man? if it be a proper question. I should
judge he is a good one, from what I see.”

“He is Squire Gordon, of Birtwick Park, the other side the Beacon
Hills,” said James.

“Ah! so, so, I have heard tell of him; fine judge of horses, ain't he?
the best rider in the county.”

“I believe he is,” said James, “but he rides very little now, since the
poor young master was killed.”

“Ah! poor gentleman; I read all about it in the paper at the time. A
fine horse killed, too, wasn't there?”