No doubt we were very foolish, but danger seemed to be all round, and
there was nobody we knew to trust in, and all was strange and uncertain.
The fresh air that had come in through the open door made it easier to
breathe, but the rushing sound overhead grew louder, and as I looked
upward through the bars of my empty rack I saw a red light flickering
on the wall. Then I heard a cry of “Fire!” outside, and the old hostler
quietly and quickly came in; he got one horse out, and went to another,
but the flames were playing round the trapdoor, and the roaring overhead
was dreadful.

The next thing I heard was James' voice, quiet and cheery, as it always
was.

“Come, my beauties, it is time for us to be off, so wake up and come
along.” I stood nearest the door, so he came to me first, patting me as
he came in.

“Come, Beauty, on with your bridle, my boy, we'll soon be out of this
smother.” It was on in no time; then he took the scarf off his neck, and
tied it lightly over my eyes, and patting and coaxing he led me out
of the stable. Safe in the yard, he slipped the scarf off my eyes, and
shouted, “Here somebody! take this horse while I go back for the other.”

A tall, broad man stepped forward and took me, and James darted back
into the stable. I set up a shrill whinny as I saw him go. Ginger told
me afterward that whinny was the best thing I could have done for her,
for had she not heard me outside she would never have had courage to
come out.

There was much confusion in the yard; the horses being got out of other
stables, and the carriages and gigs being pulled out of houses and
sheds, lest the flames should spread further. On the other side the yard
windows were thrown up, and people were shouting all sorts of things;
but I kept my eye fixed on the stable door, where the smoke poured out
thicker than ever, and I could see flashes of red light; presently I
heard above all the stir and din a loud, clear voice, which I knew was
master's:

“James Howard! James Howard! Are you there?” There was no answer, but I
heard a crash of something falling in the stable, and the next moment
I gave a loud, joyful neigh, for I saw James coming through the smoke
leading Ginger with him; she was coughing violently, and he was not able
to speak.

“My brave lad!” said master, laying his hand on his shoulder, “are you
hurt?”

James shook his head, for he could not yet speak.

“Ay,” said the big man who held me; “he is a brave lad, and no mistake.”