“And now,” said master, “when you have got your breath, James, we'll get
out of this place as quickly as we can,” and we were moving toward the
entry, when from the market-place there came a sound of galloping feet
and loud rumbling wheels.

“'Tis the fire-engine! the fire-engine!” shouted two or three voices,
“stand back, make way!” and clattering and thundering over the stones
two horses dashed into the yard with a heavy engine behind them. The
firemen leaped to the ground; there was no need to ask where the fire
was--it was rolling up in a great blaze from the roof.

We got out as fast as we could into the broad quiet market-place; the
stars were shining, and except the noise behind us, all was still.
Master led the way to a large hotel on the other side, and as soon as
the hostler came, he said, “James, I must now hasten to your mistress;
I trust the horses entirely to you, order whatever you think is needed,”
 and with that he was gone. The master did not run, but I never saw
mortal man walk so fast as he did that night.

There was a dreadful sound before we got into our stalls--the shrieks of
those poor horses that were left burning to death in the stable--it was
very terrible! and made both Ginger and me feel very bad. We, however,
were taken in and well done by.

The next morning the master came to see how we were and to speak to
James. I did not hear much, for the hostler was rubbing me down, but
I could see that James looked very happy, and I thought the master was
proud of him. Our mistress had been so much alarmed in the night that
the journey was put off till the afternoon, so James had the morning
on hand, and went first to the inn to see about our harness and the
carriage, and then to hear more about the fire. When he came back we
heard him tell the hostler about it. At first no one could guess how the
fire had been caused, but at last a man said he saw Dick Towler go into
the stable with a pipe in his mouth, and when he came out he had not
one, and went to the tap for another. Then the under hostler said he had
asked Dick to go up the ladder to put down some hay, but told him to lay
down his pipe first. Dick denied taking the pipe with him, but no one
believed him. I remember our John Manly's rule, never to allow a pipe in
the stable, and thought it ought to be the rule everywhere.

James said the roof and floor had all fallen in, and that only the black
walls were standing; the two poor horses that could not be got out were
buried under the burnt rafters and tiles.

17 John Manly's Talk