James laughed at this; but there was a thickness in his voice when he
said, “You have been my best friend except my mother; I hope you won't
forget me.”

“No, lad, no!” said John, “and if ever I can do you a good turn I hope
you won't forget me.”

The next day Joe came to the stables to learn all he could before James
left. He learned to sweep the stable, to bring in the straw and hay; he
began to clean the harness, and helped to wash the carriage. As he was
quite too short to do anything in the way of grooming Ginger and me,
James taught him upon Merrylegs, for he was to have full charge of
him, under John. He was a nice little bright fellow, and always came
whistling to his work.

Merrylegs was a good deal put out at being “mauled about,” as he said,
“by a boy who knew nothing;” but toward the end of the second week he
told me confidentially that he thought the boy would turn out well.

At last the day came when James had to leave us; cheerful as he always
was, he looked quite down-hearted that morning.

“You see,” he said to John, “I am leaving a great deal behind; my mother
and Betsy, and you, and a good master and mistress, and then the horses,
and my old Merrylegs. At the new place there will not be a soul that I
shall know. If it were not that I shall get a higher place, and be able
to help my mother better, I don't think I should have made up my mind to
it; it is a real pinch, John.”

“Ay, James, lad, so it is; but I should not think much of you if you
could leave your home for the first time and not feel it. Cheer up,
you'll make friends there; and if you get on well, as I am sure you
will, it will be a fine thing for your mother, and she will be proud
enough that you have got into such a good place as that.”

So John cheered him up, but every one was sorry to lose James; as for
Merrylegs, he pined after him for several days, and went quite off his
appetite. So John took him out several mornings with a leading rein,
when he exercised me, and, trotting and galloping by my side, got up the
little fellow's spirits again, and he was soon all right.

Joe's father would often come in and give a little help, as he
understood the work; and Joe took a great deal of pains to learn, and
John was quite encouraged about him.

18 Going for the Doctor