One night, a few days after James had left, I had eaten my hay and was
lying down in my straw fast asleep, when I was suddenly roused by the
stable bell ringing very loud. I heard the door of John's house open,
and his feet running up to the hall. He was back again in no time; he
unlocked the stable door, and came in, calling out, “Wake up, Beauty!
You must go well now, if ever you did;” and almost before I could think
he had got the saddle on my back and the bridle on my head. He just
ran round for his coat, and then took me at a quick trot up to the hall
door. The squire stood there, with a lamp in his hand.

“Now, John,” he said, “ride for your life--that is, for your mistress'
life; there is not a moment to lose. Give this note to Dr. White; give
your horse a rest at the inn, and be back as soon as you can.”

John said, “Yes, sir,” and was on my back in a minute. The gardener who
lived at the lodge had heard the bell ring, and was ready with the gate
open, and away we went through the park, and through the village, and
down the hill till we came to the toll-gate. John called very loud and
thumped upon the door; the man was soon out and flung open the gate.

“Now,” said John, “do you keep the gate open for the doctor; here's the
money,” and off he went again.

There was before us a long piece of level road by the river side; John
said to me, “Now, Beauty, do your best,” and so I did; I wanted no whip
nor spur, and for two miles I galloped as fast as I could lay my feet to
the ground; I don't believe that my old grandfather, who won the race
at Newmarket, could have gone faster. When we came to the bridge John
pulled me up a little and patted my neck. “Well done, Beauty! good old
fellow,” he said. He would have let me go slower, but my spirit was up,
and I was off again as fast as before. The air was frosty, the moon was
bright; it was very pleasant. We came through a village, then through
a dark wood, then uphill, then downhill, till after eight miles' run we
came to the town, through the streets and into the market-place. It was
all quite still except the clatter of my feet on the stones--everybody
was asleep. The church clock struck three as we drew up at Dr. White's
door. John rang the bell twice, and then knocked at the door like
thunder. A window was thrown up, and Dr. White, in his nightcap, put his
head out and said, “What do you want?”

“Mrs. Gordon is very ill, sir; master wants you to go at once; he thinks
she will die if you cannot get there. Here is a note.”