I will not tell about our way back. The doctor was a heavier man than
John, and not so good a rider; however, I did my very best. The man at
the toll-gate had it open. When we came to the hill the doctor drew me
up. “Now, my good fellow,” he said, “take some breath.” I was glad he
did, for I was nearly spent, but that breathing helped me on, and soon
we were in the park. Joe was at the lodge gate; my master was at the
hall door, for he had heard us coming. He spoke not a word; the doctor
went into the house with him, and Joe led me to the stable. I was glad
to get home; my legs shook under me, and I could only stand and pant. I
had not a dry hair on my body, the water ran down my legs, and I steamed
all over, Joe used to say, like a pot on the fire. Poor Joe! he was
young and small, and as yet he knew very little, and his father, who
would have helped him, had been sent to the next village; but I am sure
he did the very best he knew. He rubbed my legs and my chest, but he did
not put my warm cloth on me; he thought I was so hot I should not like
it. Then he gave me a pailful of water to drink; it was cold and very
good, and I drank it all; then he gave me some hay and some corn, and
thinking he had done right, he went away. Soon I began to shake and
tremble, and turned deadly cold; my legs ached, my loins ached, and my
chest ached, and I felt sore all over. Oh! how I wished for my warm,
thick cloth, as I stood and trembled. I wished for John, but he had
eight miles to walk, so I lay down in my straw and tried to go to sleep.
After a long while I heard John at the door; I gave a low moan, for I
was in great pain. He was at my side in a moment, stooping down by me. I
could not tell him how I felt, but he seemed to know it all; he covered
me up with two or three warm cloths, and then ran to the house for some
hot water; he made me some warm gruel, which I drank, and then I think I
went to sleep.

John seemed to be very much put out. I heard him say to himself over and
over again, “Stupid boy! stupid boy! no cloth put on, and I dare say the
water was cold, too; boys are no good;” but Joe was a good boy, after
all.