I was now very ill; a strong inflammation had attacked my lungs, and I
could not draw my breath without pain. John nursed me night and day; he
would get up two or three times in the night to come to me. My master,
too, often came to see me. “My poor Beauty,” he said one day, “my good
horse, you saved your mistress' life, Beauty; yes, you saved her life.”
 I was very glad to hear that, for it seems the doctor had said if we had
been a little longer it would have been too late. John told my master he
never saw a horse go so fast in his life. It seemed as if the horse knew
what was the matter. Of course I did, though John thought not; at least
I knew as much as this--that John and I must go at the top of our speed,
and that it was for the sake of the mistress.

19 Only Ignorance

I do not know how long I was ill. Mr. Bond, the horse-doctor, came every
day. One day he bled me; John held a pail for the blood. I felt very
faint after it and thought I should die, and I believe they all thought
so too.

Ginger and Merrylegs had been moved into the other stable, so that I
might be quiet, for the fever made me very quick of hearing; any little
noise seemed quite loud, and I could tell every one's footstep going to
and from the house. I knew all that was going on. One night John had to
give me a draught; Thomas Green came in to help him. After I had taken
it and John had made me as comfortable as he could, he said he should
stay half an hour to see how the medicine settled. Thomas said he
would stay with him, so they went and sat down on a bench that had been
brought into Merrylegs' stall, and put down the lantern at their feet,
that I might not be disturbed with the light.

For awhile both men sat silent, and then Tom Green said in a low voice:

“I wish, John, you'd say a bit of a kind word to Joe. The boy is quite
broken-hearted; he can't eat his meals, and he can't smile. He says he
knows it was all his fault, though he is sure he did the best he knew,
and he says if Beauty dies no one will ever speak to him again. It goes
to my heart to hear him. I think you might give him just a word; he is
not a bad boy.”