Joe Green went on very well; he learned quickly, and was so attentive
and careful that John began to trust him in many things; but as I have
said, he was small of his age, and it was seldom that he was allowed to
exercise either Ginger or me; but it so happened one morning that John
was out with Justice in the luggage cart, and the master wanted a
note to be taken immediately to a gentleman's house, about three miles
distant, and sent his orders for Joe to saddle me and take it, adding
the caution that he was to ride steadily.

The note was delivered, and we were quietly returning when we came
to the brick-field. Here we saw a cart heavily laden with bricks; the
wheels had stuck fast in the stiff mud of some deep ruts, and the carter
was shouting and flogging the two horses unmercifully. Joe pulled up. It
was a sad sight. There were the two horses straining and struggling with
all their might to drag the cart out, but they could not move it; the
sweat streamed from their legs and flanks, their sides heaved, and every
muscle was strained, while the man, fiercely pulling at the head of the
fore horse, swore and lashed most brutally.

“Hold hard,” said Joe; “don't go on flogging the horses like that; the
wheels are so stuck that they cannot move the cart.”

The man took no heed, but went on lashing.

“Stop! pray stop!” said Joe. “I'll help you to lighten the cart; they
can't move it now.”

“Mind your own business, you impudent young rascal, and I'll mind mine!”
 The man was in a towering passion and the worse for drink, and laid on
the whip again. Joe turned my head, and the next moment we were going at
a round gallop toward the house of the master brick-maker. I cannot say
if John would have approved of our pace, but Joe and I were both of one
mind, and so angry that we could not have gone slower.

The house stood close by the roadside. Joe knocked at the door, and
shouted, “Halloo! Is Mr. Clay at home?” The door was opened, and Mr.
Clay himself came out.

“Halloo, young man! You seem in a hurry; any orders from the squire this
morning?”

“No, Mr. Clay, but there's a fellow in your brick-yard flogging two
horses to death. I told him to stop, and he wouldn't; I said I'd help
him to lighten the cart, and he wouldn't; so I have come to tell you.
Pray, sir, go.” Joe's voice shook with excitement.

“Thank ye, my lad,” said the man, running in for his hat; then pausing
for a moment, “Will you give evidence of what you saw if I should bring
the fellow up before a magistrate?”

“That I will,” said Joe, “and glad too.” The man was gone, and we were
on our way home at a smart trot.