“Why, what's the matter with you, Joe? You look angry all over,” said
John, as the boy flung himself from the saddle.

“I am angry all over, I can tell you,” said the boy, and then in
hurried, excited words he told all that had happened. Joe was usually
such a quiet, gentle little fellow that it was wonderful to see him so
roused.

“Right, Joe! you did right, my boy, whether the fellow gets a summons or
not. Many folks would have ridden by and said it was not their
business to interfere. Now I say that with cruelty and oppression it is
everybody's business to interfere when they see it; you did right, my
boy.”

Joe was quite calm by this time, and proud that John approved of him,
and cleaned out my feet and rubbed me down with a firmer hand than
usual.

They were just going home to dinner when the footman came down to the
stable to say that Joe was wanted directly in master's private room;
there was a man brought up for ill-using horses, and Joe's evidence was
wanted. The boy flushed up to his forehead, and his eyes sparkled. “They
shall have it,” said he.

“Put yourself a bit straight,” said John. Joe gave a pull at his necktie
and a twitch at his jacket, and was off in a moment. Our master being
one of the county magistrates, cases were often brought to him to
settle, or say what should be done. In the stable we heard no more for
some time, as it was the men's dinner hour, but when Joe came next into
the stable I saw he was in high spirits; he gave me a good-natured slap,
and said, “We won't see such things done, will we, old fellow?” We heard
afterward that he had given his evidence so clearly, and the horses were
in such an exhausted state, bearing marks of such brutal usage, that the
carter was committed to take his trial, and might possibly be sentenced
to two or three months in prison.

It was wonderful what a change had come over Joe. John laughed, and said
he had grown an inch taller in that week, and I believe he had. He
was just as kind and gentle as before, but there was more purpose and
determination in all that he did--as if he had jumped at once from a boy
into a man.

21 The Parting