Master gave John the name and address, and then he thanked him for his
long and faithful service; but that was too much for John. “Pray, don't,
sir, I can't bear it; you and my dear mistress have done so much for
me that I could never repay it. But we shall never forget you, sir, and
please God, we may some day see mistress back again like herself; we
must keep up hope, sir.” Master gave John his hand, but he did not
speak, and they both left the stable.

The last sad day had come; the footman and the heavy luggage had gone
off the day before, and there were only master and mistress and her
maid. Ginger and I brought the carriage up to the hall door for the last
time. The servants brought out cushions and rugs and many other things;
and when all were arranged master came down the steps carrying the
mistress in his arms (I was on the side next to the house, and could see
all that went on); he placed her carefully in the carriage, while the
house servants stood round crying.

“Good-by, again,” he said; “we shall not forget any of you,” and he got
in. “Drive on, John.”

Joe jumped up, and we trotted slowly through the park and through the
village, where the people were standing at their doors to have a last
look and to say, “God bless them.”

When we reached the railway station I think mistress walked from the
carriage to the waiting-room. I heard her say in her own sweet voice,
“Good-by, John. God bless you.” I felt the rein twitch, but John made no
answer; perhaps he could not speak. As soon as Joe had taken the things
out of the carriage John called him to stand by the horses, while he
went on the platform. Poor Joe! he stood close up to our heads to hide
his tears. Very soon the train came puffing up into the station; then
two or three minutes, and the doors were slammed to, the guard whistled,
and the train glided away, leaving behind it only clouds of white smoke
and some very heavy hearts.

When it was quite out of sight John came back.

“We shall never see her again,” he said--“never.” He took the reins,
mounted the box, and with Joe drove slowly home; but it was not our home
now.

Part II

22 Earlshall