The next morning after breakfast Joe put Merrylegs into the mistress'
low chaise to take him to the vicarage; he came first and said good-by
to us, and Merrylegs neighed to us from the yard. Then John put the
saddle on Ginger and the leading rein on me, and rode us across the
country about fifteen miles to Earlshall Park, where the Earl of W----
lived. There was a very fine house and a great deal of stabling. We went
into the yard through a stone gateway, and John asked for Mr. York. It
was some time before he came. He was a fine-looking, middle-aged man,
and his voice said at once that he expected to be obeyed. He was very
friendly and polite to John, and after giving us a slight look he
called a groom to take us to our boxes, and invited John to take some
refreshment.

We were taken to a light, airy stable, and placed in boxes adjoining
each other, where we were rubbed down and fed. In about half an hour
John and Mr. York, who was to be our new coachman, came in to see us.

“Now, Mr. Manly,” he said, after carefully looking at us both, “I can
see no fault in these horses; but we all know that horses have their
peculiarities as well as men, and that sometimes they need different
treatment. I should like to know if there is anything particular in
either of these that you would like to mention.”

“Well,” said John, “I don't believe there is a better pair of horses in
the country, and right grieved I am to part with them, but they are not
alike. The black one is the most perfect temper I ever knew; I suppose
he has never known a hard word or a blow since he was foaled, and all
his pleasure seems to be to do what you wish; but the chestnut, I fancy,
must have had bad treatment; we heard as much from the dealer. She came
to us snappish and suspicious, but when she found what sort of place
ours was, it all went off by degrees; for three years I have never seen
the smallest sign of temper, and if she is well treated there is not
a better, more willing animal than she is. But she is naturally a more
irritable constitution than the black horse; flies tease her more;
anything wrong in the harness frets her more; and if she were ill-used
or unfairly treated she would not be unlikely to give tit for tat. You
know that many high-mettled horses will do so.”

“Of course,” said York, “I quite understand; but you know it is not easy
in stables like these to have all the grooms just what they should be. I
do my best, and there I must leave it. I'll remember what you have said
about the mare.”