They were going out of the stable, when John stopped and said, “I had
better mention that we have never used the check-rein with either of
them; the black horse never had one on, and the dealer said it was the
gag-bit that spoiled the other's temper.”

“Well,” said York, “if they come here they must wear the check-rein. I
prefer a loose rein myself, and his lordship is always very reasonable
about horses; but my lady--that's another thing; she will have style,
and if her carriage horses are not reined up tight she wouldn't look at
them. I always stand out against the gag-bit, and shall do so, but it
must be tight up when my lady rides!”

“I am sorry for it, very sorry,” said John; “but I must go now, or I
shall lose the train.”

He came round to each of us to pat and speak to us for the last time;
his voice sounded very sad.

I held my face close to him; that was all I could do to say good-by; and
then he was gone, and I have never seen him since.

The next day Lord W---- came to look at us; he seemed pleased with our
appearance.

“I have great confidence in these horses,” he said, “from the character
my friend Mr. Gordon has given me of them. Of course they are not a
match in color, but my idea is that they will do very well for the
carriage while we are in the country. Before we go to London I must try
to match Baron; the black horse, I believe, is perfect for riding.”

York then told him what John had said about us.

“Well,” said he, “you must keep an eye to the mare, and put the
check-rein easy; I dare say they will do very well with a little
humoring at first. I'll mention it to your lady.”

In the afternoon we were harnessed and put in the carriage, and as the
stable clock struck three we were led round to the front of the house.
It was all very grand, and three or four times as large as the old house
at Birtwick, but not half so pleasant, if a horse may have an opinion.
Two footmen were standing ready, dressed in drab livery, with scarlet
breeches and white stockings. Presently we heard the rustling sound of
silk as my lady came down the flight of stone steps. She stepped round
to look at us; she was a tall, proud-looking woman, and did not
seem pleased about something, but she said nothing, and got into the
carriage. This was the first time of wearing a check-rein, and I must
say, though it certainly was a nuisance not to be able to get my head
down now and then, it did not pull my head higher than I was accustomed
to carry it. I felt anxious about Ginger, but she seemed to be quiet and
content.