The next day at three o'clock we were again at the door, and the footmen
as before; we heard the silk dress rustle and the lady came down the
steps, and in an imperious voice she said, “York, you must put those
horses' heads higher; they are not fit to be seen.”

York got down, and said very respectfully, “I beg your pardon, my lady,
but these horses have not been reined up for three years, and my lord
said it would be safer to bring them to it by degrees; but if your
ladyship pleases I can take them up a little more.”

“Do so,” she said.

York came round to our heads and shortened the rein himself--one hole,
I think; every little makes a difference, be it for better or worse, and
that day we had a steep hill to go up. Then I began to understand what
I had heard of. Of course, I wanted to put my head forward and take the
carriage up with a will, as we had been used to do; but no, I had to
pull with my head up now, and that took all the spirit out of me, and
the strain came on my back and legs. When we came in Ginger said, “Now
you see what it is like; but this is not bad, and if it does not get
much worse than this I shall say nothing about it, for we are very well
treated here; but if they strain me up tight, why, let 'em look out! I
can't bear it, and I won't.”

Day by day, hole by hole, our bearing reins were shortened, and instead
of looking forward with pleasure to having my harness put on, as I used
to do, I began to dread it. Ginger, too, seemed restless, though she
said very little. At last I thought the worst was over; for several days
there was no more shortening, and I determined to make the best of
it and do my duty, though it was now a constant harass instead of a
pleasure; but the worst was not come.

23 A Strike for Liberty

One day my lady came down later than usual, and the silk rustled more
than ever.

“Drive to the Duchess of B----'s,” she said, and then after a pause,
“Are you never going to get those horses' heads up, York? Raise them at
once and let us have no more of this humoring and nonsense.”