Lord W---- was much put out when he learned what had happened; he blamed
York for giving way to his mistress, to which he replied that in future
he would much prefer to receive his orders only from his lordship; but
I think nothing came of it, for things went on the same as before. I
thought York might have stood up better for his horses, but perhaps I am
no judge.

Ginger was never put into the carriage again, but when she was well of
her bruises one of the Lord W----'s younger sons said he should like
to have her; he was sure she would make a good hunter. As for me, I was
obliged still to go in the carriage, and had a fresh partner called Max;
he had always been used to the tight rein. I asked him how it was he
bore it.

“Well,” he said, “I bear it because I must; but it is shortening my
life, and it will shorten yours too if you have to stick to it.”

“Do you think,” I said, “that our masters know how bad it is for us?”

“I can't say,” he replied, “but the dealers and the horse-doctors know
it very well. I was at a dealer's once, who was training me and another
horse to go as a pair; he was getting our heads up, as he said, a little
higher and a little higher every day. A gentleman who was there asked
him why he did so. 'Because,' said he, 'people won't buy them unless we
do. The London people always want their horses to carry their heads high
and to step high. Of course it is very bad for the horses, but then it
is good for trade. The horses soon wear up, or get diseased, and they
come for another pair.' That,” said Max, “is what he said in my hearing,
and you can judge for yourself.”

What I suffered with that rein for four long months in my lady's
carriage it would be hard to describe; but I am quite sure that, had it
lasted much longer, either my health or my temper would have given way.
Before that, I never knew what it was to foam at the mouth, but now
the action of the sharp bit on my tongue and jaw, and the constrained
position of my head and throat, always caused me to froth at the mouth
more or less. Some people think it very fine to see this, and say, “What
fine spirited creatures!” But it is just as unnatural for horses as
for men to foam at the mouth; it is a sure sign of some discomfort,
and should be attended to. Besides this, there was a pressure on my
windpipe, which often made my breathing very uncomfortable; when I
returned from my work my neck and chest were strained and painful, my
mouth and tongue tender, and I felt worn and depressed.