Now I must say a little about Reuben Smith, who was left in charge of
the stables when York went to London. No one more thoroughly understood
his business than he did, and when he was all right there could not be
a more faithful or valuable man. He was gentle and very clever in his
management of horses, and could doctor them almost as well as a
farrier, for he had lived two years with a veterinary surgeon. He was a
first-rate driver; he could take a four-in-hand or a tandem as easily
as a pair. He was a handsome man, a good scholar, and had very pleasant
manners. I believe everybody liked him; certainly the horses did. The
only wonder was that he should be in an under situation and not in the
place of a head coachman like York; but he had one great fault and that
was the love of drink. He was not like some men, always at it; he used
to keep steady for weeks or months together, and then he would break
out and have a “bout” of it, as York called it, and be a disgrace to
himself, a terror to his wife, and a nuisance to all that had to do with
him. He was, however, so useful that two or three times York had hushed
the matter up and kept it from the earl's knowledge; but one night, when
Reuben had to drive a party home from a ball he was so drunk that he
could not hold the reins, and a gentleman of the party had to mount the
box and drive the ladies home. Of course, this could not be hidden, and
Reuben was at once dismissed; his poor wife and little children had to
turn out of the pretty cottage by the park gate and go where they could.
Old Max told me all this, for it happened a good while ago; but shortly
before Ginger and I came Smith had been taken back again. York had
interceded for him with the earl, who is very kind-hearted, and the man
had promised faithfully that he would never taste another drop as long
as he lived there. He had kept his promise so well that York thought he
might be safely trusted to fill his place while he was away, and he was
so clever and honest that no one else seemed so well fitted for it.