Beyond the turnpike was a long piece of road, upon which fresh stones
had just been laid--large sharp stones, over which no horse could be
driven quickly without risk of danger. Over this road, with one shoe
gone, I was forced to gallop at my utmost speed, my rider meanwhile
cutting into me with his whip, and with wild curses urging me to go
still faster. Of course my shoeless foot suffered dreadfully; the hoof
was broken and split down to the very quick, and the inside was terribly
cut by the sharpness of the stones.

This could not go on; no horse could keep his footing under such
circumstances; the pain was too great. I stumbled, and fell with
violence on both my knees. Smith was flung off by my fall, and, owing to
the speed I was going at, he must have fallen with great force. I soon
recovered my feet and limped to the side of the road, where it was free
from stones. The moon had just risen above the hedge, and by its light
I could see Smith lying a few yards beyond me. He did not rise; he made
one slight effort to do so, and then there was a heavy groan. I could
have groaned, too, for I was suffering intense pain both from my foot
and knees; but horses are used to bear their pain in silence. I uttered
no sound, but I stood there and listened. One more heavy groan from
Smith; but though he now lay in the full moonlight I could see no
motion. I could do nothing for him nor myself, but, oh! how I listened
for the sound of horse, or wheels, or footsteps! The road was not much
frequented, and at this time of the night we might stay for hours before
help came to us. I stood watching and listening. It was a calm, sweet
April night; there were no sounds but a few low notes of a nightingale,
and nothing moved but the white clouds near the moon and a brown owl
that flitted over the hedge. It made me think of the summer nights long
ago, when I used to lie beside my mother in the green pleasant meadow at
Farmer Grey's.

26 How it Ended

It must have been nearly midnight when I heard at a great distance the
sound of a horse's feet. Sometimes the sound died away, then it grew
clearer again and nearer. The road to Earlshall led through woods that
belonged to the earl; the sound came in that direction, and I hoped it
might be some one coming in search of us. As the sound came nearer and
nearer I was almost sure I could distinguish Ginger's step; a little
nearer still, and I could tell she was in the dog-cart. I neighed
loudly, and was overjoyed to hear an answering neigh from Ginger, and
men's voices. They came slowly over the stones, and stopped at the dark
figure that lay upon the ground.