Hitherto I had always been driven by people who at least knew how to
drive; but in this place I was to get my experience of all the different
kinds of bad and ignorant driving to which we horses are subjected; for
I was a “job horse”, and was let out to all sorts of people who wished
to hire me; and as I was good-tempered and gentle, I think I was oftener
let out to the ignorant drivers than some of the other horses, because
I could be depended upon. It would take a long time to tell of all the
different styles in which I was driven, but I will mention a few of
them.

First, there were the tight-rein drivers--men who seemed to think that
all depended on holding the reins as hard as they could, never relaxing
the pull on the horse's mouth, or giving him the least liberty of
movement. They are always talking about “keeping the horse well in
hand”, and “holding a horse up”, just as if a horse was not made to hold
himself up.

Some poor, broken-down horses, whose mouths have been made hard and
insensible by just such drivers as these, may, perhaps, find some
support in it; but for a horse who can depend upon his own legs, and who
has a tender mouth and is easily guided, it is not only tormenting, but
it is stupid.

Then there are the loose-rein drivers, who let the reins lie easily on
our backs, and their own hand rest lazily on their knees. Of course,
such gentlemen have no control over a horse, if anything happens
suddenly. If a horse shies, or starts, or stumbles, they are nowhere,
and cannot help the horse or themselves till the mischief is done. Of
course, for myself I had no objection to it, as I was not in the habit
either of starting or stumbling, and had only been used to depend on my
driver for guidance and encouragement. Still, one likes to feel the rein
a little in going downhill, and likes to know that one's driver is not
gone to sleep.

Besides, a slovenly way of driving gets a horse into bad and often lazy
habits, and when he changes hands he has to be whipped out of them with
more or less pain and trouble. Squire Gordon always kept us to our best
paces and our best manners. He said that spoiling a horse and letting
him get into bad habits was just as cruel as spoiling a child, and both
had to suffer for it afterward.