“Why, you see,” said she, “men will go so fast, and if one can't keep up
to other horses it is nothing but whip, whip, whip, all the time. And so
I have had to keep up as I could, and have got into this ugly shuffling
pace. It was not always so; when I lived with my first master I always
went a good regular trot, but then he was not in such a hurry. He was a
young clergyman in the country, and a good, kind master he was. He had
two churches a good way apart, and a great deal of work, but he never
scolded or whipped me for not going faster. He was very fond of me.
I only wish I was with him now; but he had to leave and go to a large
town, and then I was sold to a farmer.

“Some farmers, you know, are capital masters; but I think this one was a
low sort of man. He cared nothing about good horses or good driving; he
only cared for going fast. I went as fast as I could, but that would
not do, and he was always whipping; so I got into this way of making a
spring forward to keep up. On market nights he used to stay very late at
the inn, and then drive home at a gallop.

“One dark night he was galloping home as usual, when all of a sudden the
wheel came against some great heavy thing in the road, and turned the
gig over in a minute. He was thrown out and his arm broken, and some of
his ribs, I think. At any rate, it was the end of my living with him,
and I was not sorry. But you see it will be the same everywhere for me,
if men must go so fast. I wish my legs were longer!”

Poor Peggy! I was very sorry for her, and I could not comfort her, for
I knew how hard it was upon slow-paced horses to be put with fast ones;
all the whipping comes to their share, and they can't help it.

She was often used in the phaeton, and was very much liked by some of
the ladies, because she was so gentle; and some time after this she was
sold to two ladies who drove themselves, and wanted a safe, good horse.

I met her several times out in the country, going a good steady pace,
and looking as gay and contented as a horse could be. I was very glad to
see her, for she deserved a good place.

After she left us another horse came in her stead. He was young, and had
a bad name for shying and starting, by which he had lost a good place. I
asked him what made him shy.