“It seems to me, Barry, that your horse does not look so well as he did
when you first had him; has he been well?”

“Yes, I believe so,” said my master; “but he is not nearly so lively as
he was; my groom tells me that horses are always dull and weak in the
autumn, and that I must expect it.”

“Autumn, fiddlesticks!” said the farmer. “Why, this is only August; and
with your light work and good food he ought not to go down like this,
even if it was autumn. How do you feed him?”

My master told him. The other shook his head slowly, and began to feel
me over.

“I can't say who eats your corn, my dear fellow, but I am much mistaken
if your horse gets it. Have you ridden very fast?”

“No, very gently.”

“Then just put your hand here,” said he, passing his hand over my neck
and shoulder; “he is as warm and damp as a horse just come up from
grass. I advise you to look into your stable a little more. I hate to be
suspicious, and, thank heaven, I have no cause to be, for I can trust my
men, present or absent; but there are mean scoundrels, wicked enough to
rob a dumb beast of his food. You must look into it.” And turning to
his man, who had come to take me, “Give this horse a right good feed of
bruised oats, and don't stint him.”

“Dumb beasts!” Yes, we are; but if I could have spoken I could have told
my master where his oats went to. My groom used to come every morning
about six o'clock, and with him a little boy, who always had a covered
basket with him. He used to go with his father into the harness-room,
where the corn was kept, and I could see them, when the door stood ajar,
fill a little bag with oats out of the bin, and then he used to be off.

Five or six mornings after this, just as the boy had left the stable,
the door was pushed open, and a policeman walked in, holding the child
tight by the arm; another policeman followed, and locked the door on the
inside, saying, “Show me the place where your father keeps his rabbits'
food.”

The boy looked very frightened and began to cry; but there was no
escape, and he led the way to the corn-bin. Here the policeman found
another empty bag like that which was found full of oats in the boy's
basket.

Filcher was cleaning my feet at the time, but they soon saw him, and
though he blustered a good deal they walked him off to the “lock-up”,
and his boy with him. I heard afterward that the boy was not held to be
guilty, but the man was sentenced to prison for two months.

31 A Humbug