My master was not immediately suited, but in a few days my new groom
came. He was a tall, good-looking fellow enough; but if ever there was
a humbug in the shape of a groom Alfred Smirk was the man. He was very
civil to me, and never used me ill; in fact, he did a great deal of
stroking and patting when his master was there to see it. He always
brushed my mane and tail with water and my hoofs with oil before he
brought me to the door, to make me look smart; but as to cleaning my
feet or looking to my shoes, or grooming me thoroughly, he thought no
more of that than if I had been a cow. He left my bit rusty, my saddle
damp, and my crupper stiff.

Alfred Smirk considered himself very handsome; he spent a great deal of
time about his hair, whiskers and necktie, before a little looking-glass
in the harness-room. When his master was speaking to him it was always,
“Yes, sir; yes, sir”--touching his hat at every word; and every one
thought he was a very nice young man and that Mr. Barry was very
fortunate to meet with him. I should say he was the laziest, most
conceited fellow I ever came near. Of course, it was a great thing not
to be ill-used, but then a horse wants more than that. I had a loose
box, and might have been very comfortable if he had not been too
indolent to clean it out. He never took all the straw away, and the
smell from what lay underneath was very bad; while the strong vapors
that rose made my eyes smart and inflame, and I did not feel the same
appetite for my food.

One day his master came in and said, “Alfred, the stable smells rather
strong; should not you give that stall a good scrub and throw down
plenty of water?”

“Well, sir,” he said, touching his cap, “I'll do so if you please, sir;
but it is rather dangerous, sir, throwing down water in a horse's box;
they are very apt to take cold, sir. I should not like to do him an
injury, but I'll do it if you please, sir.”

“Well,” said his master, “I should not like him to take cold; but I
don't like the smell of this stable. Do you think the drains are all
right?”

“Well, sir, now you mention it, I think the drain does sometimes send
back a smell; there may be something wrong, sir.”

“Then send for the bricklayer and have it seen to,” said his master.

“Yes, sir, I will.”

The bricklayer came and pulled up a great many bricks, but found nothing
amiss; so he put down some lime and charged the master five shillings,
and the smell in my box was as bad as ever. But that was not all:
standing as I did on a quantity of moist straw my feet grew unhealthy
and tender, and the master used to say: