“Thank you, governor,” and he rode on. We soon turned up one of the side
streets, and about halfway up that we turned into a very narrow street,
with rather poor-looking houses on one side, and what seemed to be
coach-houses and stables on the other.

My owner pulled up at one of the houses and whistled. The door flew
open, and a young woman, followed by a little girl and boy, ran out.
There was a very lively greeting as my rider dismounted.

“Now, then, Harry, my boy, open the gates, and mother will bring us the
lantern.”

The next minute they were all standing round me in a small stable-yard.

“Is he gentle, father?”

“Yes, Dolly, as gentle as your own kitten; come and pat him.”

At once the little hand was patting about all over my shoulder without
fear. How good it felt!

“Let me get him a bran mash while you rub him down,” said the mother.

“Do, Polly, it's just what he wants; and I know you've got a beautiful
mash ready for me.”

“Sausage dumpling and apple turnover!” shouted the boy, which set them
all laughing. I was led into a comfortable, clean-smelling stall, with
plenty of dry straw, and after a capital supper I lay down, thinking I
was going to be happy.

33 A London Cab Horse

Jeremiah Barker was my new master's name, but as every one called him
Jerry, I shall do the same. Polly, his wife, was just as good a match as
a man could have. She was a plump, trim, tidy little woman, with smooth,
dark hair, dark eyes, and a merry little mouth. The boy was twelve years
old, a tall, frank, good-tempered lad; and little Dorothy (Dolly they
called her) was her mother over again, at eight years old. They were all
wonderfully fond of each other; I never knew such a happy, merry family
before or since. Jerry had a cab of his own, and two horses, which he
drove and attended to himself. His other horse was a tall, white, rather
large-boned animal called “Captain”. He was old now, but when he was
young he must have been splendid; he had still a proud way of
holding his head and arching his neck; in fact, he was a high-bred,
fine-mannered, noble old horse, every inch of him. He told me that in
his early youth he went to the Crimean War; he belonged to an officer
in the cavalry, and used to lead the regiment. I will tell more of that
hereafter.