The next morning, when I was well-groomed, Polly and Dolly came into the
yard to see me and make friends. Harry had been helping his father since
the early morning, and had stated his opinion that I should turn out a
“regular brick”. Polly brought me a slice of apple, and Dolly a piece
of bread, and made as much of me as if I had been the “Black Beauty” of
olden time. It was a great treat to be petted again and talked to in a
gentle voice, and I let them see as well as I could that I wished to be
friendly. Polly thought I was very handsome, and a great deal too good
for a cab, if it was not for the broken knees.

“Of course there's no one to tell us whose fault that was,” said Jerry,
“and as long as I don't know I shall give him the benefit of the doubt;
for a firmer, neater stepper I never rode. We'll call him 'Jack', after
the old one--shall we, Polly?”

“Do,” she said, “for I like to keep a good name going.”

Captain went out in the cab all the morning. Harry came in after school
to feed me and give me water. In the afternoon I was put into the
cab. Jerry took as much pains to see if the collar and bridle fitted
comfortably as if he had been John Manly over again. When the crupper
was let out a hole or two it all fitted well. There was no check-rein,
no curb, nothing but a plain ring snaffle. What a blessing that was!

After driving through the side street we came to the large cab stand
where Jerry had said “Good-night”. On one side of this wide street were
high houses with wonderful shop fronts, and on the other was an old
church and churchyard, surrounded by iron palisades. Alongside these
iron rails a number of cabs were drawn up, waiting for passengers; bits
of hay were lying about on the ground; some of the men were standing
together talking; some were sitting on their boxes reading the
newspaper; and one or two were feeding their horses with bits of hay,
and giving them a drink of water. We pulled up in the rank at the back
of the last cab. Two or three men came round and began to look at me and
pass their remarks.

“Very good for a funeral,” said one.

“Too smart-looking,” said another, shaking his head in a very wise way;
“you'll find out something wrong one of these fine mornings, or my name
isn't Jones.”

“Well,” said Jerry pleasantly, “I suppose I need not find it out till it
finds me out, eh? And if so, I'll keep up my spirits a little longer.”