“We soon found that the country we had come to was very different from
our own and that we had many hardships to endure besides the fighting;
but many of the men were so fond of their horses that they did
everything they could to make them comfortable in spite of snow, wet,
and all things out of order.”

“But what about the fighting?” said I, “was not that worse than anything
else?”

“Well,” said he, “I hardly know; we always liked to hear the trumpet
sound, and to be called out, and were impatient to start off, though
sometimes we had to stand for hours, waiting for the word of command;
and when the word was given we used to spring forward as gayly and
eagerly as if there were no cannon balls, bayonets, or bullets. I
believe so long as we felt our rider firm in the saddle, and his hand
steady on the bridle, not one of us gave way to fear, not even when the
terrible bomb-shells whirled through the air and burst into a thousand
pieces.

“I, with my noble master, went into many actions together without a
wound; and though I saw horses shot down with bullets, pierced through
with lances, and gashed with fearful saber-cuts; though we left them
dead on the field, or dying in the agony of their wounds, I don't think
I feared for myself. My master's cheery voice, as he encouraged his
men, made me feel as if he and I could not be killed. I had such perfect
trust in him that while he was guiding me I was ready to charge up
to the very cannon's mouth. I saw many brave men cut down, many fall
mortally wounded from their saddles. I had heard the cries and groans
of the dying, I had cantered over ground slippery with blood, and
frequently had to turn aside to avoid trampling on wounded man or horse,
but, until one dreadful day, I had never felt terror; that day I shall
never forget.”

Here old Captain paused for awhile and drew a long breath; I waited, and
he went on.

“It was one autumn morning, and as usual, an hour before daybreak our
cavalry had turned out, ready caparisoned for the day's work, whether
it might be fighting or waiting. The men stood by their horses waiting,
ready for orders. As the light increased there seemed to be some
excitement among the officers; and before the day was well begun we
heard the firing of the enemy's guns.

“Then one of the officers rode up and gave the word for the men to
mount, and in a second every man was in his saddle, and every horse
stood expecting the touch of the rein, or the pressure of his rider's
heels, all animated, all eager; but still we had been trained so well
that, except by the champing of our bits, and the restive tossing of our
heads from time to time, it could not be said that we stirred.