“I wanted to keep my place by his side and not leave him under that
rush of horses' feet, but it was in vain; and now without a master or a
friend I was alone on that great slaughter ground; then fear took hold
on me, and I trembled as I had never trembled before; and I too, as I
had seen other horses do, tried to join in the ranks and gallop with
them; but I was beaten off by the swords of the soldiers. Just then a
soldier whose horse had been killed under him caught at my bridle and
mounted me, and with this new master I was again going forward; but our
gallant company was cruelly overpowered, and those who remained alive
after the fierce fight for the guns came galloping back over the same
ground. Some of the horses had been so badly wounded that they could
scarcely move from the loss of blood; other noble creatures were trying
on three legs to drag themselves along, and others were struggling to
rise on their fore feet, when their hind legs had been shattered by
shot. After the battle the wounded men were brought in and the dead were
buried.”

“And what about the wounded horses?” I said; “were they left to die?”

“No, the army farriers went over the field with their pistols and shot
all that were ruined; some that had only slight wounds were brought back
and attended to, but the greater part of the noble, willing creatures
that went out that morning never came back! In our stables there was
only about one in four that returned.

“I never saw my dear master again. I believe he fell dead from the
saddle. I never loved any other master so well. I went into many other
engagements, but was only once wounded, and then not seriously; and when
the war was over I came back again to England, as sound and strong as
when I went out.”

I said, “I have heard people talk about war as if it was a very fine
thing.”

“Ah!” said he, “I should think they never saw it. No doubt it is very
fine when there is no enemy, when it is just exercise and parade and
sham fight. Yes, it is very fine then; but when thousands of good brave
men and horses are killed or crippled for life, it has a very different
look.”

“Do you know what they fought about?” said I.

“No,” he said, “that is more than a horse can understand, but the enemy
must have been awfully wicked people, if it was right to go all that way
over the sea on purpose to kill them.”

35 Jerry Barker