It is always difficult to drive fast in the city in the middle of the
day, when the streets are full of traffic, but we did what could be
done; and when a good driver and a good horse, who understand each
other, are of one mind, it is wonderful what they can do. I had a very
good mouth--that is I could be guided by the slightest touch of the
rein; and that is a great thing in London, among carriages, omnibuses,
carts, vans, trucks, cabs, and great wagons creeping along at a walking
pace; some going one way, some another, some going slowly, others
wanting to pass them; omnibuses stopping short every few minutes to take
up a passenger, obliging the horse that is coming behind to pull up too,
or to pass, and get before them; perhaps you try to pass, but just then
something else comes dashing in through the narrow opening, and you
have to keep in behind the omnibus again; presently you think you see a
chance, and manage to get to the front, going so near the wheels on each
side that half an inch nearer and they would scrape. Well, you get along
for a bit, but soon find yourself in a long train of carts and carriages
all obliged to go at a walk; perhaps you come to a regular block-up, and
have to stand still for minutes together, till something clears out into
a side street, or the policeman interferes; you have to be ready for
any chance--to dash forward if there be an opening, and be quick as a
rat-dog to see if there be room and if there be time, lest you get your
own wheels locked or smashed, or the shaft of some other vehicle run
into your chest or shoulder. All this is what you have to be ready for.
If you want to get through London fast in the middle of the day it wants
a deal of practice.

Jerry and I were used to it, and no one could beat us at getting through
when we were set upon it. I was quick and bold and could always trust
my driver; Jerry was quick and patient at the same time, and could trust
his horse, which was a great thing too. He very seldom used the whip; I
knew by his voice, and his click, click, when he wanted to get on fast,
and by the rein where I was to go; so there was no need for whipping;
but I must go back to my story.

The streets were very full that day, but we got on pretty well as far
as the bottom of Cheapside, where there was a block for three or four
minutes. The young man put his head out and said anxiously, “I think I
had better get out and walk; I shall never get there if this goes on.”