“I'll do all that can be done, sir,” said Jerry; “I think we shall be
in time. This block-up cannot last much longer, and your luggage is very
heavy for you to carry, sir.”

Just then the cart in front of us began to move on, and then we had a
good turn. In and out, in and out we went, as fast as horseflesh could
do it, and for a wonder had a good clear time on London Bridge, for
there was a whole train of cabs and carriages all going our way at a
quick trot, perhaps wanting to catch that very train. At any rate, we
whirled into the station with many more, just as the great clock pointed
to eight minutes to twelve o'clock.

“Thank God! we are in time,” said the young man, “and thank you, too, my
friend, and your good horse. You have saved me more than money can ever
pay for. Take this extra half-crown.”

“No, sir, no, thank you all the same; so glad we hit the time, sir;
but don't stay now, sir, the bell is ringing. Here, porter! take this
gentleman's luggage--Dover line twelve o'clock train--that's it,” and
without waiting for another word Jerry wheeled me round to make room for
other cabs that were dashing up at the last minute, and drew up on one
side till the crush was past.

“'So glad!' he said, 'so glad!' Poor young fellow! I wonder what it was
that made him so anxious!”

Jerry often talked to himself quite loud enough for me to hear when we
were not moving.

On Jerry's return to the rank there was a good deal of laughing and
chaffing at him for driving hard to the train for an extra fare, as they
said, all against his principles, and they wanted to know how much he
had pocketed.

“A good deal more than I generally get,” said he, nodding slyly; “what
he gave me will keep me in little comforts for several days.”

“Gammon!” said one.

“He's a humbug,” said another; “preaching to us and then doing the same
himself.”

“Look here, mates,” said Jerry; “the gentleman offered me half a crown
extra, but I didn't take it; 'twas quite pay enough for me to see how
glad he was to catch that train; and if Jack and I choose to have a
quick run now and then to please ourselves, that's our business and not
yours.”

“Well,” said Larry, “you'll never be a rich man.”

“Most likely not,” said Jerry; “but I don't know that I shall be the
less happy for that. I have heard the commandments read a great many
times and I never noticed that any of them said, 'Thou shalt be rich';
and there are a good many curious things said in the New Testament about
rich men that I think would make me feel rather queer if I was one of
them.”