“I say, Jerry,” says she, speaking very slowly, “I say, if Mrs. Briggs
would give you a sovereign every Sunday morning, I would not have you a
seven-days' cabman again. We have known what it was to have no Sundays,
and now we know what it is to call them our own. Thank God, you earn
enough to keep us, though it is sometimes close work to pay for all the
oats and hay, the license, and the rent besides; but Harry will soon be
earning something, and I would rather struggle on harder than we do than
go back to those horrid times when you hardly had a minute to look at
your own children, and we never could go to a place of worship together,
or have a happy, quiet day. God forbid that we should ever turn back to
those times; that's what I say, Jerry.”

“And that is just what I told Mr. Briggs, my dear,” said Jerry, “and
what I mean to stick to. So don't go and fret yourself, Polly” (for she
had begun to cry); “I would not go back to the old times if I earned
twice as much, so that is settled, little woman. Now, cheer up, and I'll
be off to the stand.”

Three weeks had passed away after this conversation, and no order had
come from Mrs. Briggs; so there was nothing but taking jobs from the
stand. Jerry took it to heart a good deal, for of course the work was
harder for horse and man. But Polly would always cheer him up, and say,
“Never mind, father, never, mind.

“'Do your best,
     And leave the rest,
     'Twill all come right
     Some day or night.'”

It soon became known that Jerry had lost his best customer, and for what
reason. Most of the men said he was a fool, but two or three took his
part.

“If workingmen don't stick to their Sunday,” said Truman, “they'll soon
have none left; it is every man's right and every beast's right. By
God's law we have a day of rest, and by the law of England we have a day
of rest; and I say we ought to hold to the rights these laws give us and
keep them for our children.”

“All very well for you religious chaps to talk so,” said Larry; “but
I'll turn a shilling when I can. I don't believe in religion, for I
don't see that your religious people are any better than the rest.”