“If they are not better,” put in Jerry, “it is because they are not
religious. You might as well say that our country's laws are not good
because some people break them. If a man gives way to his temper, and
speaks evil of his neighbor, and does not pay his debts, he is not
religious, I don't care how much he goes to church. If some men are
shams and humbugs, that does not make religion untrue. Real religion is
the best and truest thing in the world, and the only thing that can make
a man really happy or make the world we live in any better.”

“If religion was good for anything,” said Jones, “it would prevent your
religious people from making us work on Sundays, as you know many of
them do, and that's why I say religion is nothing but a sham; why, if it
was not for the church and chapel-goers it would be hardly worth while
our coming out on a Sunday. But they have their privileges, as they call
them, and I go without. I shall expect them to answer for my soul, if I
can't get a chance of saving it.”

Several of the men applauded this, till Jerry said:

“That may sound well enough, but it won't do; every man must look
after his own soul; you can't lay it down at another man's door like a
foundling and expect him to take care of it; and don't you see, if you
are always sitting on your box waiting for a fare, they will say, 'If we
don't take him some one else will, and he does not look for any Sunday.'
Of course, they don't go to the bottom of it, or they would see if they
never came for a cab it would be no use your standing there; but
people don't always like to go to the bottom of things; it may not be
convenient to do it; but if you Sunday drivers would all strike for a
day of rest the thing would be done.”

“And what would all the good people do if they could not get to their
favorite preachers?” said Larry.

“'Tis not for me to lay down plans for other people,” said Jerry, “but
if they can't walk so far they can go to what is nearer; and if it
should rain they can put on their mackintoshes as they do on a week-day.
If a thing is right it can be done, and if it is wrong it can be done
without; and a good man will find a way. And that is as true for us
cabmen as it is for the church-goers.”

37 The Golden Rule

Two or three weeks after this, as we came into the yard rather late in
the evening, Polly came running across the road with the lantern (she
always brought it to him if it was not very wet).