“It has all come right, Jerry; Mrs. Briggs sent her servant this
afternoon to ask you to take her out to-morrow at eleven o'clock. I
said, 'Yes, I thought so, but we supposed she employed some one else
now.'”

“'Well,' said he, 'the real fact is, master was put out because Mr.
Barker refused to come on Sundays, and he has been trying other cabs,
but there's something wrong with them all; some drive too fast, and some
too slow, and the mistress says there is not one of them so nice and
clean as yours, and nothing will suit her but Mr. Barker's cab again.'”

Polly was almost out of breath, and Jerry broke out into a merry laugh.

“''Twill all come right some day or night': you were right, my dear; you
generally are. Run in and get the supper, and I'll have Jack's harness
off and make him snug and happy in no time.”

After this Mrs. Briggs wanted Jerry's cab quite as often as before,
never, however, on a Sunday; but there came a day when we had Sunday
work, and this was how it happened. We had all come home on the Saturday
night very tired, and very glad to think that the next day would be all
rest, but so it was not to be.

On Sunday morning Jerry was cleaning me in the yard, when Polly stepped
up to him, looking very full of something.

“What is it?” said Jerry.

“Well, my dear,” she said, “poor Dinah Brown has just had a letter
brought to say that her mother is dangerously ill, and that she must
go directly if she wishes to see her alive. The place is more than ten
miles away from here, out in the country, and she says if she takes the
train she should still have four miles to walk; and so weak as she is,
and the baby only four weeks old, of course that would be impossible;
and she wants to know if you would take her in your cab, and she
promises to pay you faithfully, as she can get the money.”

“Tut, tut! we'll see about that. It was not the money I was thinking
about, but of losing our Sunday; the horses are tired, and I am tired,
too--that's where it pinches.”

“It pinches all round, for that matter,” said Polly, “for it's only
half Sunday without you, but you know we should do to other people as
we should like they should do to us; and I know very well what I should
like if my mother was dying; and Jerry, dear, I am sure it won't break
the Sabbath; for if pulling a poor beast or donkey out of a pit would
not spoil it, I am quite sure taking poor Dinah would not do it.”