“Why, Polly, you are as good as the minister, and so, as I've had my
Sunday-morning sermon early to-day, you may go and tell Dinah that I'll
be ready for her as the clock strikes ten; but stop--just step round to
butcher Braydon's with my compliments, and ask him if he would lend me
his light trap; I know he never uses it on the Sunday, and it would make
a wonderful difference to the horse.”

Away she went, and soon returned, saying that he could have the trap and
welcome.

“All right,” said he; “now put me up a bit of bread and cheese, and I'll
be back in the afternoon as soon as I can.”

“And I'll have the meat pie ready for an early tea instead of for
dinner,” said Polly; and away she went, while he made his preparations
to the tune of “Polly's the woman and no mistake”, of which tune he was
very fond.

I was selected for the journey, and at ten o'clock we started, in a
light, high-wheeled gig, which ran so easily that after the four-wheeled
cab it seemed like nothing.

It was a fine May day, and as soon as we were out of the town, the sweet
air, the smell of the fresh grass, and the soft country roads were as
pleasant as they used to be in the old times, and I soon began to feel
quite fresh.

Dinah's family lived in a small farmhouse, up a green lane, close by a
meadow with some fine shady trees; there were two cows feeding in it.
A young man asked Jerry to bring his trap into the meadow, and he would
tie me up in the cowshed; he wished he had a better stable to offer.

“If your cows would not be offended,” said Jerry, “there is nothing my
horse would like so well as to have an hour or two in your beautiful
meadow; he's quiet, and it would be a rare treat for him.”

“Do, and welcome,” said the young man; “the best we have is at your
service for your kindness to my sister; we shall be having some dinner
in an hour, and I hope you'll come in, though with mother so ill we are
all out of sorts in the house.”

Jerry thanked him kindly, but said as he had some dinner with him there
was nothing he should like so well as walking about in the meadow.