When my harness was taken off I did not know what I should do
first--whether to eat the grass, or roll over on my back, or lie down
and rest, or have a gallop across the meadow out of sheer spirits at
being free; and I did all by turns. Jerry seemed to be quite as happy
as I was; he sat down by a bank under a shady tree, and listened to the
birds, then he sang himself, and read out of the little brown book he is
so fond of, then wandered round the meadow, and down by a little brook,
where he picked the flowers and the hawthorn, and tied them up with
long sprays of ivy; then he gave me a good feed of the oats which he had
brought with him; but the time seemed all too short--I had not been in a
field since I left poor Ginger at Earlshall.

We came home gently, and Jerry's first words were, as we came into the
yard, “Well, Polly, I have not lost my Sunday after all, for the birds
were singing hymns in every bush, and I joined in the service; and as
for Jack, he was like a young colt.”

When he handed Dolly the flowers she jumped about for joy.

38 Dolly and a Real Gentleman

Winter came in early, with a great deal of cold and wet. There was snow,
or sleet, or rain almost every day for weeks, changing only for keen
driving winds or sharp frosts. The horses all felt it very much. When
it is a dry cold a couple of good thick rugs will keep the warmth in us;
but when it is soaking rain they soon get wet through and are no good.
Some of the drivers had a waterproof cover to throw over, which was a
fine thing; but some of the men were so poor that they could not protect
either themselves or their horses, and many of them suffered very much
that winter. When we horses had worked half the day we went to our dry
stables, and could rest, while they had to sit on their boxes, sometimes
staying out as late as one or two o'clock in the morning if they had a
party to wait for.

When the streets were slippery with frost or snow that was the worst of
all for us horses. One mile of such traveling, with a weight to draw
and no firm footing, would take more out of us than four on a good
road; every nerve and muscle of our bodies is on the strain to keep our
balance; and, added to this, the fear of falling is more exhausting than
anything else. If the roads are very bad indeed our shoes are roughed,
but that makes us feel nervous at first.