When the weather was very bad many of the men would go and sit in the
tavern close by, and get some one to watch for them; but they often
lost a fare in that way, and could not, as Jerry said, be there without
spending money. He never went to the Rising Sun; there was a coffee-shop
near, where he now and then went, or he bought of an old man, who came
to our rank with tins of hot coffee and pies. It was his opinion that
spirits and beer made a man colder afterward, and that dry clothes, good
food, cheerfulness, and a comfortable wife at home, were the best things
to keep a cabman warm. Polly always supplied him with something to eat
when he could not get home, and sometimes he would see little Dolly
peeping from the corner of the street, to make sure if “father” was on
the stand. If she saw him she would run off at full speed and soon come
back with something in a tin or basket, some hot soup or pudding Polly
had ready. It was wonderful how such a little thing could get safely
across the street, often thronged with horses and carriages; but she was
a brave little maid, and felt it quite an honor to bring “father's first
course”, as he used to call it. She was a general favorite on the stand,
and there was not a man who would not have seen her safely across the
street, if Jerry had not been able to do it.

One cold windy day Dolly had brought Jerry a basin of something hot,
and was standing by him while he ate it. He had scarcely begun when
a gentleman, walking toward us very fast, held up his umbrella. Jerry
touched his hat in return, gave the basin to Dolly, and was taking off
my cloth, when the gentleman, hastening up, cried out, “No, no, finish
your soup, my friend; I have not much time to spare, but I can wait
till you have done, and set your little girl safe on the pavement.” So
saying, he seated himself in the cab. Jerry thanked him kindly, and came
back to Dolly.

“There, Dolly, that's a gentleman; that's a real gentleman, Dolly; he
has got time and thought for the comfort of a poor cabman and a little
girl.”