Jerry finished his soup, set the child across, and then took his orders
to drive to Clapham Rise. Several times after that the same gentleman
took our cab. I think he was very fond of dogs and horses, for whenever
we took him to his own door two or three dogs would come bounding out
to meet him. Sometimes he came round and patted me, saying in his quiet,
pleasant way, “This horse has got a good master, and he deserves it.”
 It was a very rare thing for any one to notice the horse that had been
working for him. I have known ladies to do it now and then, and this
gentleman, and one or two others have given me a pat and a kind word;
but ninety-nine persons out of a hundred would as soon think of patting
the steam engine that drew the train.

The gentleman was not young, and there was a forward stoop in his
shoulders as if he was always going at something. His lips were thin and
close shut, though they had a very pleasant smile; his eye was keen, and
there was something in his jaw and the motion of his head that made one
think he was very determined in anything he set about. His voice was
pleasant and kind; any horse would trust that voice, though it was just
as decided as everything else about him.

One day he and another gentleman took our cab; they stopped at a shop
in R---- Street, and while his friend went in he stood at the door. A
little ahead of us on the other side of the street a cart with two very
fine horses was standing before some wine vaults; the carter was not
with them, and I cannot tell how long they had been standing, but they
seemed to think they had waited long enough, and began to move off.
Before they had gone many paces the carter came running out and caught
them. He seemed furious at their having moved, and with whip and rein
punished them brutally, even beating them about the head. Our gentleman
saw it all, and stepping quickly across the street, said in a decided
voice:

“If you don't stop that directly, I'll have you arrested for leaving
your horses, and for brutal conduct.”

The man, who had clearly been drinking, poured forth some abusive
language, but he left off knocking the horses about, and taking the
reins, got into his cart; meantime our friend had quietly taken a
note-book from his pocket, and looking at the name and address painted
on the cart, he wrote something down.

“What do you want with that?” growled the carter, as he cracked his whip
and was moving on. A nod and a grim smile was the only answer he got.