On returning to the cab our friend was joined by his companion, who said
laughingly, “I should have thought, Wright, you had enough business of
your own to look after, without troubling yourself about other people's
horses and servants.”

Our friend stood still for a moment, and throwing his head a little
back, “Do you know why this world is as bad as it is?”

“No,” said the other.

“Then I'll tell you. It is because people think only about their own
business, and won't trouble themselves to stand up for the oppressed,
nor bring the wrongdoer to light. I never see a wicked thing like this
without doing what I can, and many a master has thanked me for letting
him know how his horses have been used.”

“I wish there were more gentlemen like you, sir,” said Jerry, “for they
are wanted badly enough in this city.”

After this we continued our journey, and as they got out of the cab our
friend was saying, “My doctrine is this, that if we see cruelty or
wrong that we have the power to stop, and do nothing, we make ourselves
sharers in the guilt.”

39 Seedy Sam

I should say that for a cab-horse I was very well off indeed; my driver
was my owner, and it was his interest to treat me well and not overwork
me, even had he not been so good a man as he was; but there were a great
many horses which belonged to the large cab-owners, who let them out to
their drivers for so much money a day. As the horses did not belong to
these men the only thing they thought of was how to get their money out
of them, first, to pay the master, and then to provide for their own
living; and a dreadful time some of these horses had of it. Of course,
I understood but little, but it was often talked over on the stand,
and the governor, who was a kind-hearted man and fond of horses, would
sometimes speak up if one came in very much jaded or ill-used.

One day a shabby, miserable-looking driver, who went by the name of
“Seedy Sam”, brought in his horse looking dreadfully beat, and the
governor said:

“You and your horse look more fit for the police station than for this
rank.”

The man flung his tattered rug over the horse, turned full round upon
the Governor and said in a voice that sounded almost desperate: