There was an old man, too, who used to come up our street with a little
coal cart; he wore a coal-heaver's hat, and looked rough and black. He
and his old horse used to plod together along the street, like two good
partners who understood each other; the horse would stop of his own
accord at the doors where they took coal of him; he used to keep one ear
bent toward his master. The old man's cry could be heard up the street
long before he came near. I never knew what he said, but the children
called him “Old Ba-a-ar Hoo”, for it sounded like that. Polly took her
coal of him, and was very friendly, and Jerry said it was a comfort to
think how happy an old horse might be in a poor place.

42 The Election

As we came into the yard one afternoon Polly came out. “Jerry! I've had
Mr. B---- here asking about your vote, and he wants to hire your cab for
the election; he will call for an answer.”

“Well, Polly, you may say that my cab will be otherwise engaged. I
should not like to have it pasted over with their great bills, and as
to making Jack and Captain race about to the public-houses to bring up
half-drunken voters, why, I think 'twould be an insult to the horses.
No, I shan't do it.”

“I suppose you'll vote for the gentleman? He said he was of your
politics.”

“So he is in some things, but I shall not vote for him, Polly; you know
what his trade is?”

“Yes.”

“Well, a man who gets rich by that trade may be all very well in some
ways, but he is blind as to what workingmen want; I could not in my
conscience send him up to make the laws. I dare say they'll be angry,
but every man must do what he thinks to be the best for his country.”

On the morning before the election, Jerry was putting me into the
shafts, when Dolly came into the yard sobbing and crying, with her
little blue frock and white pinafore spattered all over with mud.

“Why, Dolly, what is the matter?”

“Those naughty boys,” she sobbed, “have thrown the dirt all over me, and
called me a little raga--raga--”

“They called her a little 'blue' ragamuffin, father,” said Harry, who
ran in looking very angry; “but I have given it to them; they won't
insult my sister again. I have given them a thrashing they will
remember; a set of cowardly, rascally 'orange' blackguards.”

Jerry kissed the child and said, “Run in to mother, my pet, and tell her
I think you had better stay at home to-day and help her.”

Then turning gravely to Harry: