“My boy, I hope you will always defend your sister, and give anybody who
insults her a good thrashing--that is as it should be; but mind, I won't
have any election blackguarding on my premises. There are as many
'blue' blackguards as there are 'orange', and as many white as there are
purple, or any other color, and I won't have any of my family mixed up
with it. Even women and children are ready to quarrel for the sake of a
color, and not one in ten of them knows what it is about.”

“Why, father, I thought blue was for Liberty.”

“My boy, Liberty does not come from colors, they only show party, and
all the liberty you can get out of them is, liberty to get drunk at
other people's expense, liberty to ride to the poll in a dirty old cab,
liberty to abuse any one that does not wear your color, and to shout
yourself hoarse at what you only half-understand--that's your liberty!”

“Oh, father, you are laughing.”

“No, Harry, I am serious, and I am ashamed to see how men go on who
ought to know better. An election is a very serious thing; at least it
ought to be, and every man ought to vote according to his conscience,
and let his neighbor do the same.”

43 A Friend in Need

The election day came at last; there was no lack of work for Jerry and
me. First came a stout puffy gentleman with a carpet bag; he wanted to
go to the Bishopsgate station; then we were called by a party who wished
to be taken to the Regent's Park; and next we were wanted in a side
street where a timid, anxious old lady was waiting to be taken to the
bank; there we had to stop to take her back again, and just as we had
set her down a red-faced gentleman, with a handful of papers, came
running up out of breath, and before Jerry could get down he had opened
the door, popped himself in, and called out, “Bow Street Police Station,
quick!” so off we went with him, and when after another turn or two
we came back, there was no other cab on the stand. Jerry put on my
nose-bag, for as he said, “We must eat when we can on such days as
these; so munch away, Jack, and make the best of your time, old boy.”