I found I had a good feed of crushed oats wetted up with a little bran;
this would be a treat any day, but very refreshing then. Jerry was so
thoughtful and kind--what horse would not do his best for such a master?
Then he took out one of Polly's meat pies, and standing near me, he
began to eat it. The streets were very full, and the cabs, with the
candidates' colors on them, were dashing about through the crowd as if
life and limb were of no consequence; we saw two people knocked down
that day, and one was a woman. The horses were having a bad time of it,
poor things! but the voters inside thought nothing of that; many of them
were half-drunk, hurrahing out of the cab windows if their own party
came by. It was the first election I had seen, and I don't want to be in
another, though I have heard things are better now.

Jerry and I had not eaten many mouthfuls before a poor young woman,
carrying a heavy child, came along the street. She was looking this way
and that way, and seemed quite bewildered. Presently she made her way up
to Jerry and asked if he could tell her the way to St. Thomas' Hospital,
and how far it was to get there. She had come from the country that
morning, she said, in a market cart; she did not know about the
election, and was quite a stranger in London. She had got an order for
the hospital for her little boy. The child was crying with a feeble,
pining cry.

“Poor little fellow!” she said, “he suffers a deal of pain; he is four
years old and can't walk any more than a baby; but the doctor said if I
could get him into the hospital he might get well; pray, sir, how far is
it; and which way is it?”

“Why, missis,” said Jerry, “you can't get there walking through crowds
like this! why, it is three miles away, and that child is heavy.”

“Yes, bless him, he is; but I am strong, thank God, and if I knew the
way I think I should get on somehow; please tell me the way.”

“You can't do it,” said Jerry, “you might be knocked down and the child
be run over. Now look here, just get into this cab, and I'll drive you
safe to the hospital. Don't you see the rain is coming on?”

“No, sir, no; I can't do that, thank you, I have only just money enough
to get back with. Please tell me the way.”

“Look you here, missis,” said Jerry, “I've got a wife and dear children
at home, and I know a father's feelings; now get you into that cab, and
I'll take you there for nothing. I'd be ashamed of myself to let a woman
and a sick child run a risk like that.”

“Heaven bless you!” said the woman, and burst into tears.