“There, there, cheer up, my dear, I'll soon take you there; come, let me
put you inside.”

As Jerry went to open the door two men, with colors in their hats and
buttonholes, ran up calling out, “Cab!”

“Engaged,” cried Jerry; but one of the men, pushing past the woman,
sprang into the cab, followed by the other. Jerry looked as stern as a
policeman. “This cab is already engaged, gentlemen, by that lady.”

“Lady!” said one of them; “oh! she can wait; our business is very
important, besides we were in first, it is our right, and we shall stay
in.”

A droll smile came over Jerry's face as he shut the door upon them. “All
right, gentlemen, pray stay in as long as it suits you; I can wait while
you rest yourselves.” And turning his back upon them he walked up to the
young woman, who was standing near me. “They'll soon be gone,” he said,
laughing; “don't trouble yourself, my dear.”

And they soon were gone, for when they understood Jerry's dodge they got
out, calling him all sorts of bad names and blustering about his number
and getting a summons. After this little stoppage we were soon on our
way to the hospital, going as much as possible through by-streets. Jerry
rung the great bell and helped the young woman out.

“Thank you a thousand times,” she said; “I could never have got here
alone.”

“You're kindly welcome, and I hope the dear child will soon be better.”

He watched her go in at the door, and gently he said to himself,
“Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these.” Then he
patted my neck, which was always his way when anything pleased him.

The rain was now coming down fast, and just as we were leaving the
hospital the door opened again, and the porter called out, “Cab!” We
stopped, and a lady came down the steps. Jerry seemed to know her at
once; she put back her veil and said, “Barker! Jeremiah Barker, is it
you? I am very glad to find you here; you are just the friend I want,
for it is very difficult to get a cab in this part of London to-day.”

“I shall be proud to serve you, ma'am; I am right glad I happened to be
here. Where may I take you to, ma'am?”

“To the Paddington Station, and then if we are in good time, as I think
we shall be, you shall tell me all about Mary and the children.”

We got to the station in good time, and being under shelter the lady
stood a good while talking to Jerry. I found she had been Polly's
mistress, and after many inquiries about her she said:

“How do you find the cab work suit you in winter? I know Mary was rather
anxious about you last year.”