“Yes, ma'am, she was; I had a bad cough that followed me up quite into
the warm weather, and when I am kept out late she does worry herself a
good deal. You see, ma'am, it is all hours and all weathers, and that
does try a man's constitution; but I am getting on pretty well, and I
should feel quite lost if I had not horses to look after. I was brought
up to it, and I am afraid I should not do so well at anything else.”

“Well, Barker,” she said, “it would be a great pity that you should
seriously risk your health in this work, not only for your own but for
Mary's and the children's sake; there are many places where good drivers
or good grooms are wanted, and if ever you think you ought to give up
this cab work let me know.”

Then sending some kind messages to Mary she put something into his hand,
saying, “There is five shillings each for the two children; Mary will
know how to spend it.”

Jerry thanked her and seemed much pleased, and turning out of the
station we at last reached home, and I, at least, was tired.

44 Old Captain and His Successor

Captain and I were great friends. He was a noble old fellow, and he was
very good company. I never thought that he would have to leave his home
and go down the hill; but his turn came, and this was how it happened. I
was not there, but I heard all about it.

He and Jerry had taken a party to the great railway station over London
Bridge, and were coming back, somewhere between the bridge and the
monument, when Jerry saw a brewer's empty dray coming along, drawn by
two powerful horses. The drayman was lashing his horses with his heavy
whip; the dray was light, and they started off at a furious rate; the
man had no control over them, and the street was full of traffic.

One young girl was knocked down and run over, and the next moment they
dashed up against our cab; both the wheels were torn off and the cab was
thrown over. Captain was dragged down, the shafts splintered, and one
of them ran into his side. Jerry, too, was thrown, but was only bruised;
nobody could tell how he escaped; he always said 'twas a miracle. When
poor Captain was got up he was found to be very much cut and knocked
about. Jerry led him home gently, and a sad sight it was to see the
blood soaking into his white coat and dropping from his side and
shoulder. The drayman was proved to be very drunk, and was fined, and
the brewer had to pay damages to our master; but there was no one to pay
damages to poor Captain.