“I've a great mind to try at it,” said Grant, “for 'tis a poor thing not
to be one's own master.”

“Do, governor, do, you'll never repent it, and what a help it would be
to some of the poor fellows in our rank if they saw you do without it. I
know there's two or three would like to keep out of that tavern if they
could.”

At first Captain seemed to do well, but he was a very old horse, and it
was only his wonderful constitution, and Jerry's care, that had kept
him up at the cab work so long; now he broke down very much. The farrier
said he might mend up enough to sell for a few pounds, but Jerry said,
no! a few pounds got by selling a good old servant into hard work
and misery would canker all the rest of his money, and he thought the
kindest thing he could do for the fine old fellow would be to put a sure
bullet through his head, and then he would never suffer more; for he did
not know where to find a kind master for the rest of his days.

The day after this was decided Harry took me to the forge for some new
shoes; when I returned Captain was gone. I and the family all felt it
very much.

Jerry had now to look out for another horse, and he soon heard of one
through an acquaintance who was under-groom in a nobleman's stables. He
was a valuable young horse, but he had run away, smashed into another
carriage, flung his lordship out, and so cut and blemished himself that
he was no longer fit for a gentleman's stables, and the coachman had
orders to look round, and sell him as well as he could.

“I can do with high spirits,” said Jerry, “if a horse is not vicious or
hard-mouthed.”

“There is not a bit of vice in him,” said the man; “his mouth is very
tender, and I think myself that was the cause of the accident; you see
he had just been clipped, and the weather was bad, and he had not had
exercise enough, and when he did go out he was as full of spring as a
balloon. Our governor (the coachman, I mean) had him harnessed in as
tight and strong as he could, with the martingale, and the check-rein, a
very sharp curb, and the reins put in at the bottom bar. It is my belief
that it made the horse mad, being tender in the mouth and so full of
spirit.”

“Likely enough; I'll come and see him,” said Jerry.