The next day Hotspur, that was his name, came home; he was a fine brown
horse, without a white hair in him, as tall as Captain, with a very
night he was very restless. Instead of lying down, he kept jerking his
halter rope up and down through the ring, and knocking the block about
against the manger till I could not sleep. However, the next day, after
five or six hours in the cab, he came in quiet and sensible. Jerry
patted and talked to him a good deal, and very soon they understood each
other, and Jerry said that with an easy bit and plenty of work he would
be as gentle as a lamb; and that it was an ill wind that blew nobody
good, for if his lordship had lost a hundred-guinea favorite, the cabman
had gained a good horse with all his strength in him.

Hotspur thought it a great come-down to be a cab-horse, and was
disgusted at standing in the rank, but he confessed to me at the end of
the week that an easy mouth and a free head made up for a great deal,
and after all, the work was not so degrading as having one's head and
tail fastened to each other at the saddle. In fact, he settled in well,
and Jerry liked him very much.

45 Jerry's New Year

For some people Christmas and the New Year are very merry times; but for
cabmen and cabmen's horses it is no holiday, though it may be a harvest.
There are so many parties, balls, and places of amusement open that the
work is hard and often late. Sometimes driver and horse have to wait
for hours in the rain or frost, shivering with the cold, while the merry
people within are dancing away to the music. I wonder if the beautiful
ladies ever think of the weary cabman waiting on his box, and his
patient beast standing, till his legs get stiff with cold.

I had now most of the evening work, as I was well accustomed to
standing, and Jerry was also more afraid of Hotspur taking cold. We had
a great deal of late work in the Christmas week, and Jerry's cough was
bad; but however late we were, Polly sat up for him, and came out with a
lantern to meet him, looking anxious and troubled.

On the evening of the New Year we had to take two gentlemen to a house
in one of the West End Squares. We set them down at nine o'clock, and
were told to come again at eleven, “but,” said one, “as it is a card
party, you may have to wait a few minutes, but don't be late.”

As the clock struck eleven we were at the door, for Jerry was always
punctual. The clock chimed the quarters, one, two, three, and then
struck twelve, but the door did not open.