The wind had been very changeable, with squalls of rain during the day,
but now it came on sharp, driving sleet, which seemed to come all the
way round; it was very cold, and there was no shelter. Jerry got off
his box and came and pulled one of my cloths a little more over my neck;
then he took a turn or two up and down, stamping his feet; then he began
to beat his arms, but that set him off coughing; so he opened the cab
door and sat at the bottom with his feet on the pavement, and was a
little sheltered. Still the clock chimed the quarters, and no one came.
At half-past twelve he rang the bell and asked the servant if he would
be wanted that night.

“Oh, yes, you'll be wanted safe enough,” said the man; “you must not go,
it will soon be over,” and again Jerry sat down, but his voice was so
hoarse I could hardly hear him.

At a quarter past one the door opened, and the two gentlemen came out;
they got into the cab without a word, and told Jerry where to drive,
that was nearly two miles. My legs were numb with cold, and I thought
I should have stumbled. When the men got out they never said they were
sorry to have kept us waiting so long, but were angry at the charge;
however, as Jerry never charged more than was his due, so he never took
less, and they had to pay for the two hours and a quarter waiting; but
it was hard-earned money to Jerry.

At last we got home; he could hardly speak, and his cough was dreadful.
Polly asked no questions, but opened the door and held the lantern for
him.

“Can't I do something?” she said.

“Yes; get Jack something warm, and then boil me some gruel.”

This was said in a hoarse whisper; he could hardly get his breath, but
he gave me a rub-down as usual, and even went up into the hayloft for an
extra bundle of straw for my bed. Polly brought me a warm mash that made
me comfortable, and then they locked the door.

It was late the next morning before any one came, and then it was only
Harry. He cleaned us and fed us, and swept out the stalls, then he put
the straw back again as if it was Sunday. He was very still, and neither
whistled nor sang. At noon he came again and gave us our food and water;
this time Dolly came with him; she was crying, and I could gather from
what they said that Jerry was dangerously ill, and the doctor said it
was a bad case. So two days passed, and there was great trouble indoors.
We only saw Harry, and sometimes Dolly. I think she came for company,
for Polly was always with Jerry, and he had to be kept very quiet.