On the third day, while Harry was in the stable, a tap came at the door,
and Governor Grant came in.

“I wouldn't go to the house, my boy,” he said, “but I want to know how
your father is.”

“He is very bad,” said Harry, “he can't be much worse; they call
it 'bronchitis'; the doctor thinks it will turn one way or another
to-night.”

“That's bad, very bad,” said Grant, shaking his head; “I know two men
who died of that last week; it takes 'em off in no time; but while
there's life there's hope, so you must keep up your spirits.”

“Yes,” said Harry quickly, “and the doctor said that father had a better
chance than most men, because he didn't drink. He said yesterday the
fever was so high that if father had been a drinking man it would have
burned him up like a piece of paper; but I believe he thinks he will get
over it; don't you think he will, Mr. Grant?”

The governor looked puzzled.

“If there's any rule that good men should get over these things, I'm
sure he will, my boy; he's the best man I know. I'll look in early
to-morrow.”

Early next morning he was there.

“Well?” said he.

“Father is better,” said Harry. “Mother hopes he will get over it.”

“Thank God!” said the governor, “and now you must keep him warm, and
keep his mind easy, and that brings me to the horses; you see Jack will
be all the better for the rest of a week or two in a warm stable, and
you can easily take him a turn up and down the street to stretch his
legs; but this young one, if he does not get work, he will soon be all
up on end, as you may say, and will be rather too much for you; and when
he does go out there'll be an accident.”

“It is like that now,” said Harry. “I have kept him short of corn, but
he's so full of spirit I don't know what to do with him.”

“Just so,” said Grant. “Now look here, will you tell your mother that
if she is agreeable I will come for him every day till something is
arranged, and take him for a good spell of work, and whatever he earns,
I'll bring your mother half of it, and that will help with the horses'
feed. Your father is in a good club, I know, but that won't keep the
horses, and they'll be eating their heads off all this time; I'll come
at noon and hear what she says,” and without waiting for Harry's thanks
he was gone.

At noon I think he went and saw Polly, for he and Harry came to the
stable together, harnessed Hotspur, and took him out.