For a week or more he came for Hotspur, and when Harry thanked him or
said anything about his kindness, he laughed it off, saying it was all
good luck for him, for his horses were wanting a little rest which they
would not otherwise have had.

Jerry grew better steadily, but the doctor said that he must never go
back to the cab work again if he wished to be an old man. The children
had many consultations together about what father and mother would do,
and how they could help to earn money.

One afternoon Hotspur was brought in very wet and dirty.

“The streets are nothing but slush,” said the governor; “it will give
you a good warming, my boy, to get him clean and dry.”

“All right, governor,” said Harry, “I shall not leave him till he is;
you know I have been trained by my father.”

“I wish all the boys had been trained like you,” said the governor.

While Harry was sponging off the mud from Hotspur's body and legs Dolly
came in, looking very full of something.

“Who lives at Fairstowe, Harry? Mother has got a letter from Fairstowe;
she seemed so glad, and ran upstairs to father with it.”

“Don't you know? Why, it is the name of Mrs. Fowler's place--mother's
old mistress, you know--the lady that father met last summer, who sent
you and me five shillings each.”

“Oh! Mrs. Fowler. Of course, I know all about her. I wonder what she is
writing to mother about.”

“Mother wrote to her last week,” said Harry; “you know she told father
if ever he gave up the cab work she would like to know. I wonder what
she says; run in and see, Dolly.”

Harry scrubbed away at Hotspur with a huish! huish! like any old
hostler. In a few minutes Dolly came dancing into the stable.

“Oh! Harry, there never was anything so beautiful; Mrs. Fowler says we
are all to go and live near her. There is a cottage now empty that
will just suit us, with a garden and a henhouse, and apple-trees, and
everything! and her coachman is going away in the spring, and then she
will want father in his place; and there are good families round, where
you can get a place in the garden or the stable, or as a page-boy;
and there's a good school for me; and mother is laughing and crying by
turns, and father does look so happy!”

“That's uncommon jolly,” said Harry, “and just the right thing, I should
say; it will suit father and mother both; but I don't intend to be a
page-boy with tight clothes and rows of buttons. I'll be a groom or a
gardener.”

It was quickly settled that as soon as Jerry was well enough they should
remove to the country, and that the cab and horses should be sold as
soon as possible.