This was heavy news for me, for I was not young now, and could not look
for any improvement in my condition. Since I left Birtwick I had never
been so happy as with my dear master Jerry; but three years of cab work,
even under the best conditions, will tell on one's strength, and I felt
that I was not the horse that I had been.

Grant said at once that he would take Hotspur, and there were men on the
stand who would have bought me; but Jerry said I should not go to cab
work again with just anybody, and the governor promised to find a place
for me where I should be comfortable.

The day came for going away. Jerry had not been allowed to go out yet,
and I never saw him after that New Year's eve. Polly and the children
came to bid me good-by. “Poor old Jack! dear old Jack! I wish we could
take you with us,” she said, and then laying her hand on my mane she put
her face close to my neck and kissed me. Dolly was crying and kissed
me too. Harry stroked me a great deal, but said nothing, only he seemed
very sad, and so I was led away to my new place.

Part IV

46 Jakes and the Lady

I was sold to a corn dealer and baker, whom Jerry knew, and with him he
thought I should have good food and fair work. In the first he was quite
right, and if my master had always been on the premises I do not think
I should have been overloaded, but there was a foreman who was always
hurrying and driving every one, and frequently when I had quite a full
load he would order something else to be taken on. My carter, whose name
was Jakes, often said it was more than I ought to take, but the other
always overruled him. “'Twas no use going twice when once would do, and
he chose to get business forward.”

Jakes, like the other carters, always had the check-rein up, which
prevented me from drawing easily, and by the time I had been there three
or four months I found the work telling very much on my strength.

One day I was loaded more than usual, and part of the road was a steep
uphill. I used all my strength, but I could not get on, and was obliged
continually to stop. This did not please my driver, and he laid his whip
on badly. “Get on, you lazy fellow,” he said, “or I'll make you.”