Again I started the heavy load, and struggled on a few yards; again the
whip came down, and again I struggled forward. The pain of that great
cart whip was sharp, but my mind was hurt quite as much as my poor
sides. To be punished and abused when I was doing my very best was
so hard it took the heart out of me. A third time he was flogging me
cruelly, when a lady stepped quickly up to him, and said in a sweet,
earnest voice:

“Oh! pray do not whip your good horse any more; I am sure he is doing
all he can, and the road is very steep; I am sure he is doing his best.”

“If doing his best won't get this load up he must do something more than
his best; that's all I know, ma'am,” said Jakes.

“But is it not a heavy load?” she said.

“Yes, yes, too heavy,” he said; “but that's not my fault; the foreman
came just as we were starting, and would have three hundredweight more
put on to save him trouble, and I must get on with it as well as I can.”

He was raising the whip again, when the lady said:

“Pray, stop; I think I can help you if you will let me.”

The man laughed.

“You see,” she said, “you do not give him a fair chance; he cannot use
all his power with his head held back as it is with that check-rein; if
you would take it off I am sure he would do better--do try it,” she said
persuasively, “I should be very glad if you would.”

“Well, well,” said Jakes, with a short laugh, “anything to please a
lady, of course. How far would you wish it down, ma'am?”

“Quite down, give him his head altogether.”

The rein was taken off, and in a moment I put my head down to my very
knees. What a comfort it was! Then I tossed it up and down several times
to get the aching stiffness out of my neck.

“Poor fellow! that is what you wanted,” said she, patting and stroking
me with her gentle hand; “and now if you will speak kindly to him and
lead him on I believe he will be able to do better.”

Jakes took the rein. “Come on, Blackie.” I put down my head, and threw
my whole weight against the collar; I spared no strength; the load
moved on, and I pulled it steadily up the hill, and then stopped to take
breath.

The lady had walked along the footpath, and now came across into the
road. She stroked and patted my neck, as I had not been patted for many
a long day.

“You see he was quite willing when you gave him the chance; I am sure he
is a fine-tempered creature, and I dare say has known better days. You
won't put that rein on again, will you?” for he was just going to hitch
it up on the old plan.