“Well, ma'am, I can't deny that having his head has helped him up the
hill, and I'll remember it another time, and thank you, ma'am; but if
he went without a check-rein I should be the laughing-stock of all the
carters; it is the fashion, you see.”

“Is it not better,” she said, “to lead a good fashion than to follow a
bad one? A great many gentlemen do not use check-reins now; our carriage
horses have not worn them for fifteen years, and work with much less
fatigue than those who have them; besides,” she added in a very serious
voice, “we have no right to distress any of God's creatures without a
very good reason; we call them dumb animals, and so they are, for they
cannot tell us how they feel, but they do not suffer less because they
have no words. But I must not detain you now; I thank you for trying
my plan with your good horse, and I am sure you will find it far better
than the whip. Good-day,” and with another soft pat on my neck she
stepped lightly across the path, and I saw her no more.

“That was a real lady, I'll be bound for it,” said Jakes to himself;
“she spoke just as polite as if I was a gentleman, and I'll try her
plan, uphill, at any rate;” and I must do him the justice to say that
he let my rein out several holes, and going uphill after that, he always
gave me my head; but the heavy loads went on. Good feed and fair rest
will keep up one's strength under full work, but no horse can stand
against overloading; and I was getting so thoroughly pulled down from
this cause that a younger horse was bought in my place. I may as well
mention here what I suffered at this time from another cause. I had
heard horses speak of it, but had never myself had experience of the
evil; this was a badly-lighted stable; there was only one very small
window at the end, and the consequence was that the stalls were almost
dark.

Besides the depressing effect this had on my spirits, it very much
weakened my sight, and when I was suddenly brought out of the darkness
into the glare of daylight it was very painful to my eyes. Several times
I stumbled over the threshold, and could scarcely see where I was going.

I believe, had I stayed there very long, I should have become purblind,
and that would have been a great misfortune, for I have heard men say
that a stone-blind horse was safer to drive than one which had imperfect
sight, as it generally makes them very timid. However, I escaped without
any permanent injury to my sight, and was sold to a large cab owner.

47 Hard Times