“Poor old fellow! see, grandpapa, how well he understands kindness.
Could not you buy him and make him young again as you did with
Ladybird?”

“My dear boy, I can't make all old horses young; besides, Ladybird was
not so very old, as she was run down and badly used.”

“Well, grandpapa, I don't believe that this one is old; look at his mane
and tail. I wish you would look into his mouth, and then you could tell;
though he is so very thin, his eyes are not sunk like some old horses'.”

The old gentleman laughed. “Bless the boy! he is as horsey as his old
grandfather.”

“But do look at his mouth, grandpapa, and ask the price; I am sure he
would grow young in our meadows.”

The man who had brought me for sale now put in his word.

“The young gentleman's a real knowing one, sir. Now the fact is, this
'ere hoss is just pulled down with overwork in the cabs; he's not an old
one, and I heerd as how the vetenary should say, that a six months' run
off would set him right up, being as how his wind was not broken.
I've had the tending of him these ten days past, and a gratefuller,
pleasanter animal I never met with, and 'twould be worth a gentleman's
while to give a five-pound note for him, and let him have a chance. I'll
be bound he'd be worth twenty pounds next spring.”

The old gentleman laughed, and the little boy looked up eagerly.

“Oh, grandpapa, did you not say the colt sold for five pounds more than
you expected? You would not be poorer if you did buy this one.”

The farmer slowly felt my legs, which were much swelled and strained;
then he looked at my mouth. “Thirteen or fourteen, I should say; just
trot him out, will you?”

I arched my poor thin neck, raised my tail a little, and threw out my
legs as well as I could, for they were very stiff.

“What is the lowest you will take for him?” said the farmer as I came
back.

“Five pounds, sir; that was the lowest price my master set.”

“'Tis a speculation,” said the old gentleman, shaking his head, but at
the same time slowly drawing out his purse, “quite a speculation! Have
you any more business here?” he said, counting the sovereigns into his
hand.

“No, sir, I can take him for you to the inn, if you please.”

“Do so, I am now going there.”

They walked forward, and I was led behind. The boy could hardly control
his delight, and the old gentleman seemed to enjoy his pleasure. I had a
good feed at the inn, and was then gently ridden home by a servant of my
new master's, and turned into a large meadow with a shed in one corner
of it.