Mr. Thoroughgood, for that was the name of my benefactor, gave orders
that I should have hay and oats every night and morning, and the run of
the meadow during the day, and, “you, Willie,” said he, “must take the
oversight of him; I give him in charge to you.”

The boy was proud of his charge, and undertook it in all seriousness.
There was not a day when he did not pay me a visit; sometimes picking
me out from among the other horses, and giving me a bit of carrot, or
something good, or sometimes standing by me while I ate my oats. He
always came with kind words and caresses, and of course I grew very fond
of him. He called me Old Crony, as I used to come to him in the field
and follow him about. Sometimes he brought his grandfather, who always
looked closely at my legs.

“This is our point, Willie,” he would say; “but he is improving so
steadily that I think we shall see a change for the better in the
spring.”

The perfect rest, the good food, the soft turf, and gentle exercise,
soon began to tell on my condition and my spirits. I had a good
constitution from my mother, and I was never strained when I was young,
so that I had a better chance than many horses who have been worked
before they came to their full strength. During the winter my legs
improved so much that I began to feel quite young again. The spring came
round, and one day in March Mr. Thoroughgood determined that he would
try me in the phaeton. I was well pleased, and he and Willie drove me a
few miles. My legs were not stiff now, and I did the work with perfect
ease.

“He's growing young, Willie; we must give him a little gentle work now,
and by mid-summer he will be as good as Ladybird. He has a beautiful
mouth and good paces; they can't be better.”

“Oh, grandpapa, how glad I am you bought him!”

“So am I, my boy; but he has to thank you more than me; we must now
be looking out for a quiet, genteel place for him, where he will be
valued.”

49 My Last Home

One day during this summer the groom cleaned and dressed me with such
extraordinary care that I thought some new change must be at hand; he
trimmed my fetlocks and legs, passed the tarbrush over my hoofs, and
even parted my forelock. I think the harness had an extra polish. Willie
seemed half-anxious, half-merry, as he got into the chaise with his
grandfather.

“If the ladies take to him,” said the old gentleman, “they'll be suited
and he'll be suited. We can but try.”