At the distance of a mile or two from the village we came to a pretty,
low house, with a lawn and shrubbery at the front and a drive up to the
door. Willie rang the bell, and asked if Miss Blomefield or Miss Ellen
was at home. Yes, they were. So, while Willie stayed with me, Mr.
Thoroughgood went into the house. In about ten minutes he returned,
followed by three ladies; one tall, pale lady, wrapped in a white shawl,
leaned on a younger lady, with dark eyes and a merry face; the other,
a very stately-looking person, was Miss Blomefield. They all came
and looked at me and asked questions. The younger lady--that was Miss
Ellen--took to me very much; she said she was sure she should like me, I
had such a good face. The tall, pale lady said that she should always
be nervous in riding behind a horse that had once been down, as I might
come down again, and if I did she should never get over the fright.

“You see, ladies,” said Mr. Thoroughgood, “many first-rate horses have
had their knees broken through the carelessness of their drivers without
any fault of their own, and from what I see of this horse I should say
that is his case; but of course I do not wish to influence you. If you
incline you can have him on trial, and then your coachman will see what
he thinks of him.”

“You have always been such a good adviser to us about our horses,” said
the stately lady, “that your recommendation would go a long way with me,
and if my sister Lavinia sees no objection we will accept your offer of
a trial, with thanks.”

It was then arranged that I should be sent for the next day.

In the morning a smart-looking young man came for me. At first he looked
pleased; but when he saw my knees he said in a disappointed voice:

“I didn't think, sir, you would have recommended my ladies a blemished
horse like that.”

“'Handsome is that handsome does',” said my master; “you are only taking
him on trial, and I am sure you will do fairly by him, young man. If he
is not as safe as any horse you ever drove send him back.”

I was led to my new home, placed in a comfortable stable, fed, and left
to myself. The next day, when the groom was cleaning my face, he said:

“That is just like the star that 'Black Beauty' had; he is much the same
height, too. I wonder where he is now.”

A little further on he came to the place in my neck where I was bled and
where a little knot was left in the skin. He almost started, and began
to look me over carefully, talking to himself.