“White star in the forehead, one white foot on the off side, this little
knot just in that place;” then looking at the middle of my back--“and,
as I am alive, there is that little patch of white hair that John used
to call 'Beauty's three-penny bit'. It must be 'Black Beauty'! Why,
Beauty! Beauty! do you know me?--little Joe Green, that almost killed
you?” And he began patting and patting me as if he was quite overjoyed.

I could not say that I remembered him, for now he was a fine grown young
fellow, with black whiskers and a man's voice, but I was sure he knew
me, and that he was Joe Green, and I was very glad. I put my nose up
to him, and tried to say that we were friends. I never saw a man so
pleased.

“Give you a fair trial! I should think so indeed! I wonder who the
rascal was that broke your knees, my old Beauty! you must have been
badly served out somewhere; well, well, it won't be my fault if you
haven't good times of it now. I wish John Manly was here to see you.”

In the afternoon I was put into a low park chair and brought to the
door. Miss Ellen was going to try me, and Green went with her. I soon
found that she was a good driver, and she seemed pleased with my paces.
I heard Joe telling her about me, and that he was sure I was Squire
Gordon's old “Black Beauty”.

When we returned the other sisters came out to hear how I had behaved
myself. She told them what she had just heard, and said:

“I shall certainly write to Mrs. Gordon, and tell her that her favorite
horse has come to us. How pleased she will be!”

After this I was driven every day for a week or so, and as I appeared
to be quite safe, Miss Lavinia at last ventured out in the small close
carriage. After this it was quite decided to keep me and call me by my
old name of “Black Beauty”.

I have now lived in this happy place a whole year. Joe is the best and
kindest of grooms. My work is easy and pleasant, and I feel my strength
and spirits all coming back again. Mr. Thoroughgood said to Joe the
other day:

“In your place he will last till he is twenty years old--perhaps more.”

Willie always speaks to me when he can, and treats me as his special
friend. My ladies have promised that I shall never be sold, and so I
have nothing to fear; and here my story ends. My troubles are all over,
and I am at home; and often before I am quite awake, I fancy I am still
in the orchard at Birtwick, standing with my old friends under the
apple-trees.