"Oh, Raven, as I look at you,--from your size and beauty,--you ought to
be a king! And you would certainly be a king, if you had a good voice."

The Raven opened his mouth wide, and began to croak with all his might
and main. The meat fell down. The Fox caught it and said:

"Oh, Raven! If you had also sense, you would certainly be a king."

II. ADAPTATIONS AND IMITATIONS OF HINDOO FABLES

THE SNAKE'S HEAD AND TAIL

The Snake's Tail had a quarrel with the Snake's Head about who was to
walk in front. The Head said:

"You cannot walk in front, because you have no eyes and no ears."

The Tail said:

"Yes, but I have strength, I move you; if I want to, I can wind myself
around a tree, and you cannot get off the spot."

The Head said:

"Let us separate!"

And the Tail tore himself loose from the Head, and crept on; but the
moment he got away from the Head, he fell into a hole and was lost.

FINE THREAD

A Man ordered some fine thread from a Spinner. The Spinner spun it for
him, but the Man said that the thread was not good, and that he wanted
the finest thread he could get. The Spinner said:

"If this is not fine enough, take this!" and she pointed to an empty
space.

He said that he did not see any. The Spinner said:

"You do not see it, because it is so fine. I do not see it myself."

The Fool was glad, and ordered some more thread of this kind, and paid
her for what he got.

THE PARTITION OF THE INHERITANCE

A Father had two Sons. He said to them: "When I die, divide everything
into two equal parts."

When the Father died, the Sons could not divide without quarrelling.
They went to a Neighbour to have him settle the matter. The Neighbour
asked them how their Father had told them to divide. They said:

"He ordered us to divide everything into two equal parts."

The Neighbour said:

"If so, tear all your garments into two halves, break your dishes into
two halves, and cut all your cattle into two halves!"

The Brothers obeyed their Neighbour, and lost everything.

THE MONKEY

A Man went into the woods, cut down a tree, and began to saw it. He
raised the end of the tree on a stump, sat astride over it, and began to
saw. Then he drove a wedge into the split that he had sawed, and went on
sawing; then he took out the wedge and drove it in farther down.

A Monkey was sitting on a tree and watching him. When the Man lay down
to sleep, the Monkey seated herself astride the tree, and wanted to do
the same; but when she took out the wedge, the tree sprang back and
caught her tail. She began to tug and to cry. The Man woke up, beat the
Monkey, and tied a rope to her.