THE MONKEY AND THE PEASE

A Monkey was carrying both her hands full of pease. A pea dropped on the
ground; the Monkey wanted to pick it up, and dropped twenty peas. She
rushed to pick them up and lost all the rest. Then she flew into a
rage, swept away all the pease and ran off.

THE MILCH COW

A Man had a Cow; she gave each day a pot full of milk. The Man invited a
number of guests. To have as much milk as possible, he did not milk the
Cow for ten days. He thought that on the tenth day the Cow would give
him ten pitchers of milk.

But the Cow's milk went back, and she gave less milk than before.

THE DUCK AND THE MOON

A Duck was swimming in the pond, trying to find some fish, but she did
not find one in a whole day. When night came, she saw the Moon in the
water; she thought that it was a fish, and plunged in to catch the Moon.
The other ducks saw her do it and laughed at her.

That made the Duck feel so ashamed and bashful that when she saw a fish
under the Water, she did not try to catch it, and so died of hunger.

THE WOLF IN THE DUST

A Wolf wanted to pick a sheep out of a flock, and stepped into the wind,
so that the dust of the flock might blow on him.

The Sheep Dog saw him, and said:

"There is no sense, Wolf, in your walking in the dust: it will make your
eyes ache."

But the Wolf said:

"The trouble is, Doggy, that my eyes have been aching for quite awhile,
and I have been told that the dust from a flock of sheep will cure the
eyes."

THE MOUSE UNDER THE GRANARY

A Mouse was living under the granary. In the floor of the granary there
was a little hole, and the grain fell down through it. The Mouse had an
easy life of it, but she wanted to brag of her ease: she gnawed a larger
hole in the floor, and invited other mice.

"Come to a feast with me," said she; "there will be plenty to eat for
everybody."

When she brought the mice, she saw there was no hole. The peasant had
noticed the big hole in the floor, and had stopped it up.

THE BEST PEARS

A master sent his Servant to buy the best-tasting pears. The Servant
came to the shop and asked for pears. The dealer gave him some; but the
Servant said:

"No, give me the best!"

The dealer said:

"Try one; you will see that they taste good."

"How shall I know," said the Servant, "that they all taste good, if I
try one only?"

He bit off a piece from each pear, and brought them to his master. Then
his master sent him away.

THE FALCON AND THE COCK