The Falcon was used to the master, and came to his hand when he was
called; the Cock ran away from his master and cried when people went up
to him. So the Falcon said to the Cock:

"In you Cocks there is no gratitude; one can see that you are of a
common breed. You go to your masters only when you are hungry. It is
different with us wild birds. We have much strength, and we can fly
faster than anybody; still we do not fly away from people, but of our
own accord go to their hands when we are called. We remember that they
feed us."

Then the Cock said:

"You do not run away from people because you have never seen a roast
Falcon, but we, you know, see roast Cocks."

THE JACKALS AND THE ELEPHANT

The Jackals had eaten up all the carrion in the woods, and had nothing
to eat. So an old Jackal was thinking how to find something to feed on.
He went to an Elephant, and said:

"We had a king, but he became overweening: he told us to do things that
nobody could do; we want to choose another king, and my people have sent
me to ask you to be our king. You will have an easy life with us.
Whatever you will order us to do, we will do, and we will honour you in
everything. Come to our kingdom!"

The Elephant consented, and followed the Jackal. The Jackal brought him
to a swamp. When the Elephant stuck fast in it, the Jackal said:

"Now command! Whatever you command, we will do."

The Elephant said:

"I command you to pull me out from here."

The Jackal began to laugh, and said:

"Take hold of my tail with your trunk, and I will pull you out at once."

The Elephant said:

"Can I be pulled out by a tail?"

But the Jackal said to him:

"Why, then, do you command us to do what is impossible? Did we not drive
away our first king for telling us to do what could not be done?"

When the Elephant died in the swamp the Jackals came and ate him up.

THE HERON, THE FISHES, AND THE CRAB

A Heron was living near a pond. She grew old, and had no strength left
with which to catch the fish. She began to contrive how to live by
cunning. So she said to the Fishes:

"You Fishes do not know that a calamity is in store for you: I have
heard the people say that they are going to let off the pond, and catch
every one of you. I know of a nice little pond back of the mountain. I
should like to help you, but I am old, and it is hard for me to fly."

The Fishes begged the Heron to help them. So the Heron said: