"All right, I will do what I can for you, and will carry you over: only
I cannot do it at once,--I will take you there one after another."

And the Fishes were happy; they kept begging her: "Carry me over! Carry
me over!"

And the Heron started carrying them. She would take one up, would carry
her into the field, and would eat her up. And thus she ate a large
number of Fishes.

In the pond there lived an old Crab. When the Heron began to take out
the Fishes, he saw what was up, and said:

"Now, Heron, take me to the new abode!"

The Heron took the Crab and carried him off. When she flew out on the
field, she wanted to throw the Crab down. But the Crab saw the
fish-bones on the ground, and so squeezed the Heron's neck with his
claws, and choked her to death. Then he crawled back to the pond, and
told the Fishes.

THE WATER-SPRITE AND THE PEARL

A Man was rowing in a boat, and dropped a costly pearl into the sea. The
Man returned to the shore, took a pail, and began to draw up the water
and to pour it out on the land. He drew the water and poured it out for
three days without stopping.

On the fourth day the Water-sprite came out of the sea, and asked:

"Why are you drawing the water?"

The Man said:

"I am drawing it because I have dropped a pearl into it."

The Water-sprite asked him:

"Will you stop soon?"

The Man said:

"I will stop when I dry up the sea."

Then the Water-sprite returned to the sea, brought back that pearl, and
gave it to the Man.

THE BLIND MAN AND THE MILK

A Man born blind asked a Seeing Man:

"Of what colour is milk?"

The Seeing Man said: "The colour of milk is the same as that of white
paper."

The Blind Man asked: "Well, does that colour rustle in your hands like
paper?"

The Seeing Man said: "No, it is as white as white flour."

The Blind Man asked: "Well, is it as soft and as powdery as flour?"

The Seeing Man said: "No, it is simply as white as a white hare."

The Blind Man asked: "Well, is it as fluffy and soft as a hare?"

The Seeing Man said: "No, it is as white as snow."

The Blind Man asked: "Well, is it as cold as snow?"

And no matter how many examples the Seeing Man gave, the Blind Man was
unable to understand what the white colour of milk was like.

THE WOLF AND THE BOW