A hunter went out to hunt with bow and arrows. He killed a goat. He
threw her on his shoulders and carried her along. On his way he saw a
boar. He threw down the goat, and shot at the boar and wounded him. The
boar rushed against the hunter and butted him to death, and himself died
on the spot. A Wolf scented the blood, and came to the place where lay
the goat, the boar, the man, and his bow. The Wolf was glad, and said:

"Now I shall have enough to eat for a long time; only I will not eat
everything at once, but little by little, so that nothing may be lost:
first I will eat the tougher things, and then I will lunch on what is
soft and sweet."

The Wolf sniffed at the goat, the boar, and the man, and said:

"This is all soft food, so I will eat it later; let me first start on
these sinews of the bow."

And he began to gnaw the sinews of the bow. When he bit through the
string, the bow sprang back and hit him on his belly. He died on the
spot, and other wolves ate up the man, the goat, the boar, and the Wolf.

THE BIRDS IN THE NET

A Hunter set out a net near a lake and caught a number of birds. The
birds were large, and they raised the net and flew away with it. The
Hunter ran after them. A Peasant saw the Hunter running, and said:

"Where are you running? How can you catch up with the birds, while you
are on foot?"

The Hunter said:

"If it were one bird, I should not catch it, but now I shall."

And so it happened. When evening came, the birds began to pull for the
night each in a different direction: one to the woods, another to the
swamp, a third to the field; and all fell with the net to the ground,
and the Hunter caught them.

THE KING AND THE FALCON

A certain King let his favourite Falcon loose on a hare, and galloped
after him.

The Falcon caught the hare. The King took him away, and began to look
for some water to drink. The King found it on a knoll, but it came only
drop by drop. The King fetched his cup from the saddle, and placed it
under the water. The Water flowed in drops, and when the cup was filled,
the King raised it to his mouth and wanted to drink it. Suddenly the
Falcon fluttered on the King's arm and spilled the water. The King
placed the cup once more under the drops. He waited for a long time for
the cup to be filled even with the brim, and again, as he carried it to
his mouth, the Falcon flapped his wings and spilled the water.