When the King filled his cup for the third time and began to carry it to
his mouth, the Falcon again spilled it. The King flew into a rage and
killed him by flinging him against a stone with all his force. Just then
the King's servants rode up, and one of them ran up-hill to the spring,
to find as much water as possible, and to fill the cup. But the servant
did not bring the water; he returned with the empty cup, and said:

"You cannot drink that water; there is a snake in the spring, and she
has let her venom into the water. It is fortunate that the Falcon has
spilled the water. If you had drunk it, you would have died."

The King said:

"How badly I have repaid the Falcon! He has saved my life, and I killed
him."

THE KING AND THE ELEPHANTS

An Indian King ordered all the Blind People to be assembled, and when
they came, he ordered that all the Elephants be shown to them. The Blind
Men went to the stable and began to feel the Elephants. One felt a leg,
another a tail, a third the stump of a tail, a fourth a belly, a fifth a
back, a sixth the ears, a seventh the tusks, and an eighth a trunk.

Then the King called the Blind Men, and asked them: "What are my
Elephants like?"

One Blind Man said: "Your Elephants are like posts." He had felt the
legs.

Another Blind Man said: "They are like bath brooms." He had felt the end
of the tail.

A third said: "They are like branches." He had felt the tail stump.

The one who had touched a belly said: "The Elephants are like a clod of
earth."

The one who had touched the sides said: "They are like a wall."

The one who had touched a back said: "They are like a mound."

The one who had touched the ears said: "They are like a mortar."

The one who had touched the tusks said: "They are like horns."

The one who had touched the trunk said that they were like a stout rope.

And all the Blind Men began to dispute and to quarrel.

WHY THERE IS EVIL IN THE WORLD

A Hermit was living in the forest, and the animals were not afraid of
him. He and the animals talked together and understood each other.

Once the Hermit lay down under a tree, and a Raven a Dove, a Stag, and
a Snake gathered in the same place, to pass the night. The animals began
to discuss why there was evil in the world.

The Raven said: