"All the evil in the world comes from hunger. When I eat my fill, I sit
down on a branch and croak a little, and it is all jolly and good, and
everything gives me pleasure; but let me just go without eating a day or
two, and everything palls on me so that I do not feel like looking at
God's world. And something draws me on, and I fly from place to place,
and have no rest. When I catch a glimpse of some meat, it makes me only
feel sicker than ever, and I make for it without much thinking. At times
they throw sticks and stones at me, and the wolves and dogs grab me, but
I do not give in. Oh, how many of my brothers are perishing through
hunger! All evil comes from hunger."

The Dove said:

"According to my opinion, the evil does not come from hunger, but from
love. If we lived singly, the trouble would not be so bad. One head is
not poor, and if it is, it is only one. But here we live in pairs. And
you come to like your mate so much that you have no rest: you keep
thinking of her all the time, wondering whether she has had enough to
eat, and whether she is warm. And when your mate flies away from you,
you feel entirely lost, and you keep thinking that a hawk may have
carried her off, or men may have caught her; and you start out to find
her, and fly to your ruin,--either into the hawk's claws, or into a
snare. And when your mate is lost, nothing gives you any joy. You do not
eat or drink, and all the time search and weep. Oh, so many of us perish
in this way! All the evil is not from hunger, but from love."

The Snake said:

"No, the evil is not from hunger, nor from love, but from rage. If we
lived peacefully, without getting into a rage, everything would be nice
for us. But, as it is, whenever a thing does not go exactly right, we
get angry, and then nothing pleases us. All we think about is how to
revenge ourselves on some one. Then we forget ourselves, and only hiss,
and creep, and try to find some one to bite. And we do not spare a
soul,--we even bite our own father and mother. We feel as though we
could eat ourselves up. And we rage until we perish. All the evil in the
World comes from rage."

The Stag said: