"No, not from rage, or from love, or from hunger does all the evil in
the world come, but from terror. If it were possible not to be afraid,
everything would be well. We have swift feet and much strength: against
a small animal we defend ourselves with our horns, and from a large one
we flee. But how can I help becoming frightened? Let a branch crackle in
the forest, or a leaf rustle, and I am all atremble with fear, and my
heart flutters as though it wanted to jump out, and I fly as fast as I
can. Again, let a hare run by, or a bird flap its wings, or a dry twig
break off, and you think that it is a beast, and you run straight up
against him. Or you run away from a dog and run into the hands of a man.
Frequently you get frightened and run, not knowing whither, and at full
speed rush down a steep hill, and get killed. We have no rest. All the
evil comes from terror."

Then the Hermit said:

"Not from hunger, not from love, not from rage, not from terror are all
our sufferings, but from our bodies comes all the evil in the world.
From them come hunger, and love, and rage, and terror."

THE WOLF AND THE HUNTERS

A Wolf devoured a sheep. The Hunters caught the Wolf and began to beat
him. The Wolf said:

"In vain do you beat me: it is not my fault that I am gray,--God has
made me so."

But the Hunters said:

"We do not beat the Wolf for being gray, but for eating the sheep."

THE TWO PEASANTS

Once upon a time two Peasants drove toward each other and caught in each
other's sleighs. One cried:

"Get out of my way,--I am hurrying to town."

But the other said:

"Get out of my way, I am hurrying home."

They quarrelled for some time. A third Peasant saw them and said:

"If you are in a hurry, back up!"

THE PEASANT AND THE HORSE

A Peasant went to town to fetch some oats for his Horse. He had barely
left the village, when the Horse began to turn around, toward the house.
The Peasant struck the Horse with his whip. She went on, and kept
thinking about the Peasant:

"Whither is that fool driving me? He had better go home."

Before reaching town, the Peasant saw that the Horse trudged along
through the mud with difficulty, so he turned her on the pavement; but
the Horse began to turn back from the street. The Peasant gave the Horse
the whip, and jerked at the reins; she went on the pavement, and
thought:

"Why has he turned me on the pavement? It will only break my hoofs. It
is rough underfoot."

The Peasant went to the shop, bought the oats, and drove home. When he
came home, he gave the Horse some oats. The Horse ate them and thought: