"How stupid men are! They are fond of exercising their wits on us, but
they have less sense than we. What did he trouble himself about? He
drove me somewhere. No matter how far we went, we came home in the end.
So it would have been better if we had remained at home from the start:
he could have been sitting on the oven, and I eating oats."

THE TWO HORSES

Two Horses were drawing their carts. The Front Horse pulled well, but
the Hind Horse kept stopping all the time. The load of the Hind Horse
was transferred to the front cart; when all was transferred, the Hind
Horse went along with ease, and said to the Front Horse:

"Work hard and sweat! The more you try, the harder they will make you
work."

When they arrived at the tavern, their master said:

"Why should I feed two Horses, and haul with one only? I shall do better
to give one plenty to eat, and to kill the other: I shall at least have
her hide."

So he did.

THE AXE AND THE SAW

Two Peasants went to the forest to cut wood. One of them had an axe, and
the other a saw. They picked out a tree, and began to dispute. One said
that the tree had to be chopped, while the other said that it had to be
sawed down.

A third Peasant said:

"I will easily make peace between you: if the axe is sharp, you had
better chop it; but if the saw is sharp you had better saw it."

He took the axe, and began to chop it; but the axe was so dull that it
was not possible to cut with it. Then he took the saw; the saw was
worthless, and did not saw. So he said:

"Stop quarrelling awhile; the axe does not chop, and the saw does not
saw. First grind your axe and file your saw, and then quarrel."

But the Peasants grew angrier still at one another, because one had a
dull axe, and the other a dull saw. And they came to blows.

THE DOGS AND THE COOK

A Cook was preparing a dinner. The Dogs were lying at the kitchen door.
The Cook killed a calf and threw the guts out into the yard. The Dogs
picked them up and ate them, and said:

"He is a good Cook: he cooks well."

After awhile the Cook began to clean pease, turnips, and onions, and
threw out the refuse. The Dogs made for it; but they turned their noses
up, and said:

"Our Cook has grown worse: he used to cook well, but now he is no longer
any good."

But the Cook paid no attention to the Dogs, and continued to fix the
dinner in his own way. The family, and not the Dogs, ate the dinner, and
praised it.

THE HARE AND THE HARRIER

A Hare once said to a Harrier: