"Why do you bark when you run after us? You would catch us easier, if
you ran after us in silence. With your bark you only drive us against
the hunter: he hears where we are running; and he rushes out with his
gun and kills us, and does not give you anything."

The Harrier said:

"That is not the reason why I bark. I bark because, when I scent your
odour, I am angry, and happy because I am about to catch you; I do not
know why, but I cannot keep from barking."

THE OAK AND THE HAZELBUSH

An old Oak dropped an acorn under a Hazelbush. The Hazelbush said to the
Oak:

"Have you not enough space under your own branches? Drop your acorns in
an open space. Here I am myself crowded by my shoots, and I do not drop
my nuts to the ground, but give them to men."

"I have lived for two hundred years," said the Oak, "and the Oakling
which will sprout from that acorn will live just as long."

Then the Hazelbush flew into a rage, and said:

"If so, I will choke your Oakling, and he will not live for three days."

The Oak made no reply, but told his son to sprout out of that acorn. The
acorn got wet and burst, and clung to the ground with his crooked
rootlet, and sent up a sprout.

The Hazelbush tried to choke him, and gave him no sun. But the Oakling
spread upwards and grew stronger in the shade of the Hazelbush. A
hundred years passed. The Hazelbush had long ago dried up, but the Oak
from that acorn towered to the sky and spread his tent in all
directions.

THE HEN AND THE CHICKS

A Hen hatched some Chicks, but did not know how to take care of them. So
she said to them:

"Creep back into your shells! When you are inside your shells, I will
sit on you as before, and will take care of you."

The Chicks did as they were ordered and tried to creep into their
shells, but were unable to do so, and only crushed their wings. Then one
of the Chicks said to his mother:

"If we are to stay all the time in our shells, you ought never to have
hatched us."

THE CORN-CRAKE AND HIS MATE

A Corn-crake had made a nest in the meadow late in the year, and at
mowing time his Mate was still sitting on her eggs. Early in the morning
the peasants came to the meadow, took off the coats, whetted their
scythes, and started one after another to mow down the grass and to put
it down in rows. The Corn-crake flew up to see what the mowers were
doing. When he saw a peasant swing his scythe and cut a snake in two, he
rejoiced and flew back to his Mate and said:

"Don't fear the peasants! They have come to cut the snakes to pieces;
they have given us no rest for quite awhile."