But his Mate said:

"The peasants are cutting the grass, and with the grass they are cutting
everything which is in their way,--the snakes, and the Corn-crake's
nest, and the Corn-crake's head. My heart forebodes nothing good: but I
cannot carry away the eggs, nor fly from the nest, for fear of chilling
them."

When the mowers came to the nest of the Corn-crake, one of the peasants
swung his scythe and cut off the head of the Corn-crake's Mate, and put
the eggs in his bosom and gave them to his children to play with.

THE COW AND THE BILLY GOAT

An old woman had a Cow and a Billy Goat. The two pastured together. At
milking the Cow was restless. The old woman brought out some bread and
salt, and gave it to the Cow, and said:

"Stand still, motherkin; take it, take it! I will bring you some more,
only stand still."

On the next evening the Goat came home from the field before the Cow,
and spread his legs, and stood in front of the old woman. The old woman
wanted to strike him with the towel, but he stood still, and did not
stir. He remembered that the woman had promised the Cow some bread if
she would stand still. When the woman saw that he would not budge, she
picked up a stick, and beat him with it.

When the Goat went away, the woman began once more to feed the Cow with
bread, and to talk to her.

"There is no honesty in men," thought the Goat. "I stood still better
than the Cow, and was beaten for it."

He stepped aside, took a run, hit against the milk-pail, spilled the
milk, and hurt the old woman.

THE FOX'S TAIL

A Man caught a Fox, and asked her:

"Who has taught you Foxes to cheat the dogs with your tails?"

The Fox asked: "How do you mean, to cheat? We do not cheat the dogs, but
simply run from them as fast as we can."

The Man said:

"Yes, you do cheat them with your tails. When the dogs catch up with you
and are about to clutch you, you turn your tails to one side; the dogs
turn sharply after the tail, and then you run in the opposite
direction."

The Fox laughed, and said:

"We do not do so in order to cheat the dogs, but in order to turn
around; when a dog is after us, and we see that we cannot get away
straight ahead, we turn to one side, and in order to do that suddenly,
we have to swing the tail to the other side, just as you do with your
arms, when you have to turn around. That is not our invention; God
himself invented it when He created us, so that the dogs might not be
able to catch all the Foxes."

STORIES FOR CHILDREN

1869-1872

STORIES FOR CHILDREN

THE FOUNDLING