Másha brought the coals, put them under the sheaves, and began to blow.
When the straw caught fire, she was glad; she went into the hut and took
her brother Kiryúsha by the arm (he was a year and a half old, and had
just learned to walk), and brought him out, and said to him:

"See, Kiryúsha, what a fire I have kindled."

The sheaves were already burning and crackling. When the vestibule was
filled with smoke, Másha became frightened and ran back into the house.
Kiryúsha fell over the threshold, hurt his nose, and began to cry; Másha
pulled him into the house, and both hid under a bench.

The grandmother heard nothing, and did not wake. The elder boy, Ványa
(he was eight years old), was in the street. When he saw the smoke
rolling out of the vestibule, he ran to the door, made his way through
the smoke into the house, and began to waken his grandmother; but she
was dazed from her sleep, and, forgetting the children, rushed out and
ran to the farmyards to call the people.

In the meantime Másha was sitting under the bench and keeping quiet; but
the little boy cried, because he had hurt his nose badly. Ványa heard
his cry, looked under the bench, and called out to Másha:

"Run, you will burn!"

Másha ran to the vestibule, but could not pass for the smoke and fire.
She turned back. Then Ványa raised a window and told her to climb
through it. When she got through, Ványa picked up his brother and
dragged him along. But the child was heavy and did not let his brother
take him. He cried and pushed Ványa. Ványa fell down twice, and when he
dragged him up to the window, the door of the hut was already burning.
Ványa thrust the child's head through the window and wanted to push him
through; but the child took hold of him with both his hands (he was very
much frightened) and would not let them take him out. Then Ványa cried
to Másha:

"Pull him by the head!" while he himself pushed him behind.

And thus they pulled him through the window and into the street.

THE OLD HORSE

In our village there was an old, old man, Pímen Timoféich. He was ninety
years old. He was living at the house of his grandson, doing no work.
His back was bent: he walked with a cane and moved his feet slowly.

He had no teeth at all, and his face was wrinkled. His nether lip
trembled; when he walked and when he talked, his lips smacked, and one
could not understand what he was saying.

We were four brothers, and we were fond of riding. But we had no gentle
riding-horses. We were allowed to ride only on one horse,--the name of
that horse was Raven.