Since then I have grown to be a big man, and I always am careful with
the horses, and always think of Raven and of Pímen Timoféitch whenever I
see anybody torture a horse.

HOW I LEARNED TO RIDE

When I was a little fellow, we used to study every day, and only on
Sundays and holidays went out and played with our brothers. Once my
father said:

"The children must learn to ride. Send them to the riding-school!"

I was the youngest of the brothers, and I asked:

"May I, too, learn to ride?"

My father said:

"You will fall down."

I began to beg him to let me learn, and almost cried. My father said:

"All right, you may go, too. Only look out! Don't cry when you fall off.
He who does not once fall down from a horse will not learn to ride."

When Wednesday came, all three of us were taken to the riding-school. We
entered by a large porch, and from the large porch went to a smaller
one. Beyond the porch was a very large room: instead of a floor it had
sand. And in this room were gentlemen and ladies and just such boys as
we. That was the riding-school. The riding-school was not very light,
and there was a smell of horses, and you could hear them snap whips and
call to the horses, and the horses strike their hoofs against the wooden
walls. At first I was frightened and could not see things well. Then our
valet called the riding-master, and said:

"Give these boys some horses: they are going to learn how to ride."

The master said:

"All right!"

Then he looked at me, and said:

"He is very small, yet."

But the valet said:

"He promised not to cry when he falls down."

The master laughed and went away.

Then they brought three saddled horses, and we took off our cloaks and
walked down a staircase to the riding-school. The master was holding a
horse by a cord, and my brothers rode around him. At first they rode at
a slow pace, and later at a trot. Then they brought a pony. It was a red
horse, and his tail was cut off. He was called Ruddy. The master
laughed, and said to me:

"Well, young gentleman, get on your horse!"

I was both happy and afraid, and tried to act in such a manner as not to
be noticed by anybody. For a long time I tried to get my foot into the
stirrup, but could not do it because I was too small. Then the master
raised me up in his hands and put me on the saddle. He said:

"The young master is not heavy,--about two pounds in weight, that is
all."

At first he held me by my hand, but I saw that my brothers were not
held, and so I begged him to let go of me. He said:

"Are you not afraid?"