I was very much afraid, but I said that I was not. I was so much afraid
because Ruddy kept dropping his ears. I thought he was angry at me. The
master said:

"Look out, don't fall down!" and let go of me. At first Ruddy went at a
slow pace, and I sat up straight. But the saddle was sleek, and I was
afraid I would slip off. The master asked me:

"Well, are you fast in the saddle?"

I said:

"Yes, I am."

"If so, go at a slow trot!" and the master clicked his tongue.

Ruddy started at a slow trot, and began to jog me. But I kept silent,
and tried not to slip to one side. The master praised me:

"Oh, a fine young gentleman, indeed!"

I was very glad to hear it.

Just then the master's friend went up to him and began to talk with him,
and the master stopped looking at me.

Suddenly I felt that I had slipped a little to one side on my saddle. I
wanted to straighten myself up, but was unable to do so. I wanted to
call out to the master to stop the horse, but I thought it would be a
disgrace if I did it, and so kept silence. The master was not looking at
me and Ruddy ran at a trot, and I slipped still more to one side. I
looked at the master and thought that he would help me, but he was still
talking with his friend, and without looking at me kept repeating:

"Well done, young gentleman!"

I was now altogether to one side, and was very much frightened. I
thought that I was lost; but I felt ashamed to cry. Ruddy shook me up
once more, and I slipped off entirely and fell to the ground. Then Ruddy
stopped, and the master looked at the horse and saw that I was not on
him. He said:

"I declare, my young gentleman has dropped off!" and walked over to me.

When I told him that I was not hurt, he laughed and said:

"A child's body is soft."

I felt like crying. I asked him to put me again on the horse, and I was
lifted on the horse. After that I did not fall down again.

Thus we rode twice a week in the riding-school, and I soon learned to
ride well, and was not afraid of anything.

THE WILLOW

During Easter week a peasant went out to see whether the ground was all
thawed out.

He went into the garden and touched the soil with a stick. The earth was
soft. The peasant went into the woods; here the catkins were already
swelling on the willows. The peasant thought:

"I will fence my garden with willows; they will grow up and will make a
good hedge!"

He took his axe, cut down a dozen willows, sharpened them at the end,
and stuck them in the ground.