This is the way they hunt from under dogs. They take a setter and follow
him to the forest. The dog scents the place where the pheasants have
been feeding at daybreak, and begins to make out their tracks. No matter
how the pheasants may have mixed them up, a good dog will always find
the last track, that takes them out from the spot where they have been
feeding. The farther the dog follows the track, the stronger will the
scent be, and thus he will reach the place where the pheasant sits or
walks about in the grass in the daytime. When he comes near to where the
bird is, he thinks that it is right before him, and starts walking more
cautiously so as not to frighten it, and will stop now and then, ready
to jump and catch it. When the dog comes up very near to the pheasant,
it flies up, and the hunter shoots it.

MILTON AND BÚLKA

I bought me a setter to hunt pheasants with. The name of the dog was
Milton. He was a big, thin, gray, spotted dog, with long lips and ears,
and he was very strong and intelligent. He did not fight with Búlka. No
dog ever tried to get into a fight with Búlka. He needed only to show
his teeth, and the dogs would take their tails between their legs and
slink away.

Once I went with Milton to hunt pheasants. Suddenly Búlka ran after me
to the forest. I wanted to drive him back, but could not do so; and it
was too far for me to take him home. I thought he would not be in my
way, and so walked on; but the moment Milton scented a pheasant in the
grass and began to search for it, Búlka rushed forward and tossed from
side to side. He tried to scare up the pheasant before Milton. He heard
something in the grass, and jumped and whirled around; but he had a poor
scent and could not find the track himself, but watched Milton, to see
where he was running. The moment Milton started on the trail, Búlka ran
ahead of him. I called Búlka back and beat him, but could not do a thing
with him. The moment Milton began to search, he darted forward and
interfered with him.