The turtles live on land and in the water, like snakes and frogs. They
breed their young from eggs. These eggs they lay on the ground, and they
do not hatch them, but the eggs burst themselves, like fish spawn, and
the turtles crawl out of them. There are small turtles, not larger than
a saucer, and large ones, seven feet in length and weighing seven
hundredweights. The large turtles live in the sea.

One turtle lays in the spring hundreds of eggs. The turtle's shells are
its ribs. Men and other animals have each rib separate, while the
turtle's ribs are all grown together into a shell. But the main thing is
that with all the animals the ribs are inside the flesh, while the
turtle has the ribs on the outside, and the flesh beneath them.

BÚLKA AND THE WOLF

When I left the Caucasus, they were still fighting there, and in the
night it was dangerous to travel without a guard.

I wanted to leave as early as possible, and so did not lie down to
sleep.

My friend came to see me off, and we sat the whole evening and night in
the village street, in front of my cabin.

It was a moonlit night with a mist, and so bright that one could read,
though the moon was not to be seen.

In the middle of the night we suddenly heard a pig squealing in the yard
across the street. One of us cried: "A wolf is choking the pig!"

I ran into the house, grasped a loaded gun, and ran into the street.
They were all standing at the gate of the yard where the pig was
squealing, and cried to me: "Here!" Milton rushed after me,--no doubt he
thought that I was going out to hunt with the gun; but Búlka pricked his
short ears, and tossed from side to side, as though to ask me whom he
was to clutch. When I ran up to the wicker fence, I saw a beast running
straight toward me from the other side of the yard. That was the wolf.
He ran up to the fence and jumped on it. I stepped aside and fixed my
gun. The moment the wolf jumped down from the fence to my side, I aimed,
almost touching him with the gun, and pulled the trigger; but my gun
made "Click" and did not go off. The Wolf did not stop, but ran across
the street.