Pyatigórsk [in English, Five-Mountains] is called so because it is
situated on Mount Besh-tau. And besh means in Tartar "five," and tau
"mountain." From this mountain flows a hot sulphur stream. It is as hot
as boiling water, and over the spot where the water flows from the
mountain there is always a steam as from a samovár.

The whole place, on which the city stands, is very cheerful. From the
mountain flow the hot springs, and at the foot of the mountain is the
river Podkúmok. On the slopes of the mountain are forests; all around
the city are fields, and in the distance are seen the mountains of the
Caucasus. On these the snow never melts, and they are always as white as
sugar. One large mountain, Elbrus, is like a white loaf of sugar; it can
be seen from everywhere when the weather is clear. People come to the
hot springs to be cured, and over them there are arbours and awnings,
and all around them are gardens with walks. In the morning the music
plays, and people drink the water, or bathe, or stroll about.

The city itself is on the mountain, but at the foot of it there is a
suburb. I lived in that suburb in a small house. The house stood in a
yard, and before the windows was a small garden, and in the garden stood
the landlord's beehives, not in hollow stems, as in Russia, but in
round, plaited baskets. The bees are there so gentle that in the morning
I used to sit with Búlka in that garden, amongst the beehives.

Búlka walked about between the hives, and sniffed, and listened to the
bees' buzzing; he walked so softly among them that he did not interfere
with them, and they did not bother him.

One morning I returned home from the waters, and sat down in the garden
to drink coffee. Búlka began to scratch himself behind his ears, and
made a grating noise with his collar. The noise worried the bees, and so
I took the collar off. A little while later I heard a strange and
terrible noise coming from the city. The dogs barked, howled, and
whimpered, people shouted, and the noise descended lower from the
mountain and came nearer and nearer to our suburb.

Búlka stopped scratching himself, put his broad head with its white
teeth between his fore legs, stuck out his tongue as he wished, and lay
quietly by my side. When he heard the noise he seemed to understand what
it was. He pricked his ears, showed his teeth, jumped up, and began to
snarl. The noise came nearer. It sounded as though all the dogs of the
city were howling, whimpering, and barking. I went to the gate to see
what it was, and my landlady came out, too. I asked her:

"What is this?"

She said: