"The prisoners of the jail are coming down to kill the dogs. The dogs
have been breeding so much that the city authorities have ordered all
the dogs in the city to be killed."

"So they would kill Búlka, too, if they caught him?"

"No, they are not allowed to kill dogs with collars."

Just as I was speaking, the prisoners were coming up to our house. In
front walked the soldiers, and behind them four prisoners in chains. Two
of the prisoners had in their hands long iron hooks, and two had clubs.
In front of our house, one of the prisoners caught a watch-dog with his
hook and pulled it up to the middle of the street, and another began to
strike it with the club.

The little dog whined dreadfully, but the prisoners shouted and laughed.
The prisoner with the hook turned over the dog, and when he saw that it
was dead, he pulled out the hook and looked around for other dogs.

Just then Búlka rushed headlong at that prisoner, as though he were a
bear. I happened to think that he was without his collar, so I shouted:
"Búlka, back!" and told the prisoners not to strike the dog. But the
prisoner laughed when he saw Búlka, and with his hook nimbly struck him
and caught him by his thigh. Búlka tried to get away; but the prisoner
pulled him up toward him and told the other prisoner to strike him. The
other raised his club, and Búlka would have been killed, but he jerked,
and broke the skin at the thigh and, taking his tail between his legs,
flew, with the red sore on his body, through the gate and into the
house, and hid himself under my bed.

He was saved because the skin had broken in the spot where the hook
was.

BÚLKA'S AND MILTON'S END

Búlka and Milton died at the same time. The old Cossack did not know how
to get along with Milton. Instead of taking him out only for birds, he
went with him to hunt wild boars. And that same fall a tusky boar ripped
him open. Nobody knew how to sew him up, and so he died.

Búlka, too, did not live long after the prisoners had caught him. Soon
after his salvation from the prisoners he began to feel unhappy, and
started to lick everything that he saw. He licked my hands, but not as
formerly when he fawned. He licked for a long time, and pressed his
tongue against me, and then began to snap. Evidently he felt like biting
my hand, but did not want to do so. I did not give him my hand. Then he
licked my boot and the foot of a table, and then he began to snap at
these things. That lasted about two days, and on the third he
disappeared, and no one saw him or heard of him.