He could not have been stolen or run away from me. This happened six
weeks after the wolf had bitten him. Evidently the wolf had been mad.
Búlka had gone mad, and so went away. He had what hunters call the
rabies. They say that this madness consists in this, that the mad animal
gets cramps in its throat. It wants to drink and cannot, because the
water makes the cramps worse. And so it gets beside itself from pain and
thirst, and begins to bite. Evidently Búlka was beginning to have these
cramps when he started to lick and then to bite my hand and the foot of
the table.

I went everywhere in the neighbourhood and asked about Búlka, but could
not find out what had become of him, or how he had died. If he had been
running about and biting, as mad dogs do, I should have heard of him. No
doubt he ran somewhere into a thicket and there died by himself.

The hunters say that when an intelligent dog gets the rabies, he runs to
the fields and forests, and there tries to find the herb which he needs,
and rolls in the dew, and gets cured. Evidently Búlka never got cured.
He never came back.

THE GRAY HARE

A gray hare was living in the winter near the village. When night came,
he pricked one ear and listened; then he pricked his second ear, moved
his whiskers, sniffed, and sat down on his hind legs. Then he took a
leap or two over the deep snow, and again sat down on his hind legs, and
looked around him. Nothing could be seen but snow. The snow lay in waves
and glistened like sugar. Over the hare's head hovered a frost vapour,
and through this vapour could be seen the large, bright stars.

The hare had to cross the highway, in order to come to a threshing-floor
he knew of. On the highway the runners could be heard squeaking, and the
horses snorting, and seats creaking in the sleighs.

The hare again stopped near the road. Peasants were walking beside the
sleighs, and the collars of their caftans were raised. Their faces were
scarcely visible. Their beards, moustaches, and eyelashes were white.
Steam rose from their mouths and noses. Their horses were sweaty, and
the hoarfrost clung to the sweat. The horses jostled under their arches,
and dived in and out of snow-drifts. The peasants ran behind the horses
and in front of them, and beat them with their whips. Two peasants
walked beside each other, and one of them told the other how a horse of
his had once been stolen.