When the carts passed by, the hare leaped across the road and softly
made for the threshing-floor. A dog saw the hare from a cart. He began
to bark and darted after the hare. The hare leaped toward the
threshing-floor over the snow-drifts, which held him back; but the dog
stuck fast in the snow after the tenth leap, and stopped. Then the hare,
too, stopped and sat up on his hind legs, and then softly went on to the
threshing-floor.

On his way he met two other hares on the sowed winter field. They were
feeding and playing. The hare played awhile with his companions, dug
away the frosty snow with them, ate the wintergreen, and went on.

In the village everything was quiet; the fires were out. All one could
hear was a baby's cry in a hut and the crackling of the frost in the
logs of the cabins. The hare went to the threshing-floor, and there
found some companions. He played awhile with them on the cleared floor,
ate some oats from the open granary, climbed on the kiln over the
snow-covered roof, and across the wicker fence started back to his
ravine.

The dawn was glimmering in the east; the stars grew less, and the frost
vapours rose more densely from the earth. In the near-by village the
women got up, and went to fetch water; the peasants brought the feed
from the barn; the children shouted and cried. There were still more
carts going down the road, and the peasants talked aloud to each other.

The hare leaped across the road, went up to his old lair, picked out a
high place, dug away the snow, lay with his back in his new lair,
dropped his ears on his back, and fell asleep with open eyes.

GOD SEES THE TRUTH, BUT DOES NOT TELL AT ONCE

In the city of Vladímir there lived a young merchant, Aksénov by name.
He had two shops and a house.

Aksénov was a light-complexioned, curly-headed, fine-looking man and a
very jolly fellow and good singer. In his youth Aksénov had drunk much,
and when he was drunk he used to become riotous, but when he married he
gave up drinking, and that now happened very rarely with him.

One day in the summer Aksénov went to the Nízhni-Nóvgorod fair. As he
bade his family good-bye, his wife said to him:

"Iván Dmítrievich, do not start to-day! I have had a bad dream about
you."

Aksénov laughed, and said:

"Are you afraid that I might go on a spree at the fair?"

His wife said:

"I do not know what I am afraid of, but I had a bad dream: I dreamed
that you came to town, and when you took off your cap I saw that your
head was all gray."

Aksénov laughed.

"That means that I shall make some profit. If I strike a good bargain,
you will see me bring you some costly presents."

And he bade his family farewell, and started.