In the middle of his journey he met a merchant whom he knew, and they
stopped together in a hostelry for the night. They drank their tea
together, and lay down to sleep in two adjoining rooms. Aksénov did not
like to sleep long; he awoke in the middle of the night and, as it was
easier to travel when it was cool, wakened his driver and told him to
hitch the horses. Then he went to the "black" hut, paid his bill, and
went away.

When he had gone about forty versts, he again stopped to feed the horses
and to rest in the vestibule of a hostelry. At dinner-time he came out
on the porch, and ordered the samovár to be prepared for him. He took
out his guitar and began to play. Suddenly a tróyka with bells drove up
to the hostelry, and from the cart leaped an officer with two soldiers,
and he went up to Aksénov, and asked him who he was and where he came
from.

Aksénov told him everything as it was, and said:

"Would you not like to drink tea with me?"

But the officer kept asking him questions:

"Where did you stay last night? Were you alone, or with a merchant? Did
you see the merchant in the morning? Why did you leave so early in the
morning?"

Aksénov wondered why they asked him about all that; he told them
everything as it was, and said:

"Why do you ask me this? I am not a thief, nor a robber. I am travelling
on business of my own, and you have nothing to ask me about."

Then the officer called the soldiers, and said:

"I am the chief of the rural police, and I ask you this, because the
merchant with whom you passed last night has been found with his throat
cut. Show me your things, and you look through them!"

They entered the house, took his valise and bag, and opened them and
began to look through them. Suddenly the chief took a knife out of the
bag, and cried out:

"Whose knife is this?"

Aksénov looked, and saw that they had taken out a blood-stained knife
from his bag, and he was frightened "How did the blood get on the
knife?"

Aksénov wanted to answer, but could not pronounce a word.

"I--I do not know--I--the knife--is not mine!"

Then the chief said:

"In the morning the merchant was found in his bed with his throat cut.
No one but you could have done it. The house was locked from within, and
there was no one in the house but you. Here is the bloody knife in your
bag, and your face shows your guilt. Tell me, how did you kill him, and
how much money did you rob him of?"