When his wife had left, Aksénov thought about what they had been talking
of. When he recalled that his wife had also suspected him and had asked
him whether he had killed the merchant, he said to himself: "Evidently
none but God can know the truth, and He alone must be asked, and from
Him alone can I expect mercy." And from that time on Aksénov no longer
handed in petitions and stopped hoping, but only prayed to God.

Aksénov was sentenced to be beaten with the knout, and to be sent to
hard labour. And it was done.

He was beaten with the knout, and later, when the knout sores healed
over, he was driven with other convicts to Siberia.

In Siberia, Aksénov passed twenty-six years at hard labour. His hair
turned white like snow, and his beard grew long, narrow, and gray. All
his mirth went away. He stooped, began to walk softly, spoke little,
never laughed, and frequently prayed to God.

In the prison Aksénov learned to make boots, and with the money which he
earned he bought himself the "Legends of the Holy Martyrs," and read
them while it was light in the prison; on holidays he went to the prison
church and read the Epistles, and sang in the choir,--his voice was
still good. The authorities were fond of Aksénov for his gentleness, and
his prison comrades respected him and called him "grandfather" and
"God's man." When there were any requests to be made of the authorities,
his comrades always sent him to speak for them, and when the convicts
had any disputes between themselves, they came to Aksénov to settle
them.

No one wrote Aksénov letters from his home, and he did not know whether
his wife and children were alive, or not.

Once they brought some new prisoners to the prison. In the evening the
old prisoners gathered around the new men, and asked them from what town
they came, or from what village, and for what acts they had been sent
up. Aksénov, too, sat down on the bed-boards near the new prisoners and,
lowering his head, listened to what they were saying. One of the new
prisoners was a tall, sound-looking old man of about sixty years of age,
with a gray, clipped beard. He was telling them what he had been sent up
for: