"Yes, brothers, I have come here for no crime at all. I had unhitched a
driver's horse from the sleigh. I was caught. They said, 'You stole it.'
And I said, 'I only wanted to get home quickly, for I let the horse go.
Besides, the driver is a friend of mine. I am telling you the
truth.'--'No,' they said, 'you have stolen it.' But they did not know
what I had been stealing, or where I had been stealing. There were
crimes for which I ought to have been sent up long ago, but they could
not convict me, and now I am here contrary to the law. 'You are
lying,--you have been in Siberia, but you did not make a long visit
there--'"

"Where do you come from?" asked one of the prisoners.

"I am from the city of Vladímir, a burgher of that place. My name is
Makár, and by my father Seménovich."

Aksénov raised his head, and asked:

"Seménovich, have you not heard in Vladímir about the family of Merchant
Aksénov? Are they alive?"

"Yes, I have heard about them! They are rich merchants, even though
their father is in Siberia. He is as much a sinner as I, I think. And
you, grandfather, what are you here for?"

Aksénov did not like to talk of his misfortune. He sighed, and said:

"For my sins have I passed twenty-six years at hard labour."

Makár Seménovich said:

"For what sins?"

Aksénov said, "No doubt, I deserved it," and did not wish to tell him
any more; but the other prison people told the new man how Aksénov had
come to be in Siberia. They told him how on the road some one had killed
a merchant and had put the knife into his bag, and he thus was sentenced
though he was innocent.

When Makár Seménovich heard that, he looked at Aksénov, clapped his
knees with his hands, and said:

"What a marvel! What a marvel! But you have grown old, grandfather!"

He was asked what he was marvelling at, and where he had seen Aksénov,
but Makár Seménovich made no reply, and only said:

"It is wonderful, boys, where we were fated to meet!"

And these words made Aksénov think that this man might know something
about who had killed the merchant. He said:

"Seménovich, have you heard before this about that matter, or have we
met before?"

"Of course I have heard. The earth is full of rumours. That happened a
long time ago: I have forgotten what I heard," said Makár Seménovich.

"Maybe you have heard who killed the merchant?" asked Aksénov.

Makár Seménovich laughed and said:

"I suppose he was killed by the man in whose bag the knife was found.
Even if somebody stuck that knife into that bag, he was not caught, so
he is no thief. And how could the knife have been put in? Was not the
bag under your head? You would have heard him."