On the following day, when the convicts were taken out to work, the
soldiers noticed that Makár Seménovich was pouring out the dirt, and so
they began to search in the prison, and found the hole. The chief came
to the prison and began to ask all who had dug the hole. Everybody
denied it. Those who knew had not seen Makár Seménovich, because they
knew that for this act he would be whipped half-dead. Then the chief
turned to Aksénov. He knew that Aksénov was a just man, and said:

"Old man, you are a truthful man, tell me before God who has done that."

Makár Seménovich stood as though nothing had happened and looked at the
chief, and did not glance at Aksénov. Aksénov's arms and lips trembled,
and he could not utter a word for long time. He thought: "If I protect
him, why should I forgive him, since he has ruined me? Let him suffer
for my torments! And if I tell on him, they will indeed whip him to
death. And suppose that I have a wrong suspicion against him. Will that
make it easier for me?"

The chief said once more:

"Well, old man, speak, tell the truth! Who has been digging it?"

Aksénov looked at Makár Seménovich, and said:

"I cannot tell, your Honour. God orders me not to tell. And I will not
tell. Do with me as you please,--you have the power."

No matter how much the chief tried, Aksénov would not say anything more.
And so they did not find out who had done the digging.

On the following night, as Aksénov lay down on the bed-boards and was
just falling asleep, he heard somebody come up to him and sit down at
his feet. He looked in the darkness and recognized Makár. Aksénov said:

"What more do you want of me? What are you doing here?"

Makár Seménovich was silent. Aksénov raised himself, and said:

"What do you want? Go away, or I will call the soldier."

Makár bent down close to Aksénov, and said to him in a whisper:

"Iván Dmítrievich, forgive me!"

Aksénov said:

"For what shall I forgive you?"

"It was I who killed the merchant and put the knife into your bag. I
wanted to kill you, too, but they made a noise in the yard, so I put the
knife into your bag and climbed through the window."

Aksénov was silent and did not know what to say. Makár Seménovich
slipped down from the bed, made a low obeisance, and said:

"Iván Dmítrievich, forgive me, forgive me for God's sake! I will declare
that it was I who killed the merchant,--you will be forgiven. You will
return home."

Aksénov said:

"It is easy for you to speak so, but see how I have suffered! Where
shall I go now? My wife has died, my children have forgotten me. I have
no place to go to--"

Makár Seménovich did not get up from the floor. He struck his head
against the earth, and said: