"Iván Dmítrievich, forgive me! When they whipped me with the knout I
felt better than now that I am looking at you. You pitied me, and did
not tell on me. Forgive me, for Christ's sake! Forgive me, the accursed
evil-doer!" And he burst out into tears.

When Aksénov heard Makár Seménovich crying, he began to weep himself,
and said:

"God will forgive you. Maybe I am a hundred times worse than you!"

And suddenly a load fell off from his soul. And he no longer pined for
his home, and did not wish to leave the prison, but only thought of his
last hour.

Makár Seménovich did not listen to Aksénov, but declared his guilt. When
the decision came for Aksénov to leave,--he was dead.

HUNTING WORSE THAN SLAVERY

We were hunting bears. My companion had a chance to shoot at a bear: he
wounded him, but only in a soft spot. A little blood was left on the
snow, but the bear got away.

We met in the forest and began to discuss what to do: whether to go and
find that bear, or to wait two or three days until the bear should lie
down again.

We asked the peasant bear drivers whether we could now surround the
bear. An old bear driver said:

"No, we must give the bear a chance to calm himself. In about five days
it will be possible to surround him, but if we go after him now he will
only be frightened and will not lie down."

But a young bear driver disputed with the old man, and said that he
could surround him now.

"Over this snow," he said, "the bear cannot get away far,--he is fat. He
will lie down to-day again. And if he does not, I will overtake him on
snow-shoes."

My companion, too, did not want to surround the bear now, and advised
waiting.

But I said:

"What is the use of discussing the matter? Do as you please, but I will
go with Demyán along the track. If we overtake him, so much is gained;
if not,--I have nothing else to do to-day anyway, and it is not yet
late."

And so we did.

My companions went to the sleigh, and back to the village, but Demyán
and I took bread with us, and remained in the woods.

When all had left us, Demyán and I examined our guns, tucked our fur
coats over our belts, and followed the track.

It was fine weather, chilly and calm. But walking on snow-shoes was a
hard matter: the snow was deep and powdery.

The snow had not settled in the forest, and, besides, fresh snow had
fallen on the day before, so that the snow-shoes sunk half a foot in the
snow, and in places even deeper.