He rested, and ate a cake. He found a stone, and began once more to
break down the lock. He bruised his hands, but did not break the lock.
He got up, and walked on. He marched about a verst, but his strength
gave out,--his feet hurt him so. He would make ten steps and then stop.
"What is to be done?" he thought. "I will drag myself along until my
strength gives out entirely. If I sit down, I shall not be able to get
up. I cannot reach the fortress, so, when day breaks, I will lie down in
the forest for the day, and at night I will move on."

He walked the whole night. He came across two Tartars only, but he heard
them from afar, and so hid behind a tree.

The moon was beginning to pale, and Zhilín had not yet reached the edge
of the forest.

"Well," he thought, "I will take another thirty steps, after which I
will turn into the forest, where I will sit down."

He took the thirty steps, and there he saw that the forest came to an
end. He went to the edge of it, and there it was quite light. Before him
lay the steppe and the fortress, as in the palm of the hand, and to the
left, close by at the foot of the mountain, fires were burning and going
out, and the smoke was spreading, and men were near the camp-fires.

He took a sharp look at them: the guns were glistening,--those were
Cossacks and soldiers.

Zhilín was happy. He collected his last strength and walked down-hill.
And he thought: "God forfend that a Tartar rider should see me in the
open! Though it is not far off, I should not get away."

No sooner had he thought so, when, behold, on a mound stood three
Tartars, not more than 150 fathoms away. They saw him, and darted toward
him. His heart just sank in him. He waved his arms and shouted as loud
as he could:

"Brothers! Help, brothers!"

Our men heard him, and away flew the mounted Cossacks. They started
toward him, to cut off the Tartars.

The Cossacks had far to go, but the Tartars were near. And Zhilín
collected his last strength, took the stocks in his hand, and ran toward
the Cossacks. He was beside himself, and he made the sign of the cross,
and shouted:

"Brothers! Brothers! Brothers!"

There were about fifteen Cossacks.

The Tartars were frightened, and they stopped before they reached him.
And Zhilín ran up to the Cossacks.

The Cossacks surrounded him, and asked:

"Who are you? Where do you come from?"

But Zhilín was beside himself, and he wept, and muttered:

"Brothers! Brothers!"

The soldiers ran out, and surrounded Zhilín: one gave him bread, another
gruel, a third vódka; one covered him with a cloak, another broke off
the lock.

The officers heard of it, and took him to the fortress. The soldiers
were happy, and his companions came to see him.