Zhilín told them what had happened, and said:

"So I have been home, and got married! No, evidently that is not my
fate."

And he remained in the service in the Caucasus. Not till a month later
was Kostylín ransomed for five thousand. He was brought back more dead
than alive.

ERMÁK

In the reign of Iván Vasílevich the Terrible there were the rich
merchants, the Stroganóvs, and they lived in Perm, on the river Káma.
They heard that along the river Káma, in a circle of 140 versts, there
was good land: the soil had not been ploughed for centuries, the forests
had not been cut down for centuries. In the forests were many wild
animals, and along the river fish lakes, and no one was living on that
land, but only Tartars passed through it.

The Stroganóvs wrote a letter to the Tsar:

"Give us this land, and we will ourselves build towns there and gather
people and settle them there, and will not allow the Tartars to pass
through it."

The Tsar agreed to it, and gave them the land. The Stroganóvs sent out
clerks to gather people. And there came to them a large number of roving
people. Whoever came received from the Stroganóvs land, forest, and
cattle, and no tenant pay was collected. All they had to do was to live
and, in case of need, to go out in mass to fight the Tartars. Thus the
land was settled by the Russian people.

About twenty years passed. The Stroganóvs grew richer yet, and that
land, 140 versts around, was not enough for them. They wanted to have
more land still. About one hundred versts from them were high mountains,
the Ural Mountains, and beyond them, they had heard, there was good
land, and to that land there was no end. This land was ruled by a small
Siberian prince, Kuchum by name. In former days Kuchum had sworn
allegiance to the Russian Tsar, but later he began to rebel, and he
threatened to destroy Stroganóv's towns.

So the Stroganóvs wrote to the Tsar:

"You have given us land, and we have conquered it and turned it over to
you; now the thievish Tsarling Kuchum is rebelling against you, and
wants to take that land away and ruin us. Command us to take possession
of the land beyond the Ural Mountains; we will conquer Kuchum, and will
bring all his land under your rule."

The Tsar assented, and wrote back:

"If you have sufficient force, take the land away from Kuchum. Only do
not entice many people away from Russia."