When the Stroganóvs got that letter from the Tsar, they sent out clerks
to collect more people. And they ordered them to persuade mostly the
Cossacks from the Vólga and the Don to come. At that time many Cossacks
were roving along the Vólga and the Don. They used to gather in bands of
two, three, or six hundred men, and to select an atamán, and to row down
in barges, to capture ships and rob them, and for the winter they stayed
in little towns on the shore.

The clerks arrived at the Vólga, and there they asked who the famous
Cossacks of that region were. They were told:

"There are many Cossacks. It is impossible to live for them. There is
Míshka Cherkáshenin, and Sarý-Azmán; but there is no fiercer one than
Ermák Timoféich, the atamán. He has a thousand men, and not only the
merchants and the people are afraid of him, but even the Tsarian army
does not dare to cope with him."

And the clerks went to Ermák the atamán, and began to persuade him to go
to the Stroganóvs. Ermák received the clerks, listened to their
speeches, and promised to come with his people about the time of the
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin.

Near the holiday of the Assumption there came to the Stroganóvs six
hundred Cossacks, with their atamán, Ermák Timoféich. At first Stroganóv
sent them against the neighbouring Tartars. The Cossacks annihilated
them. Then, when nothing was doing, the Cossacks roved in the
neighbourhood and robbed.

So Stroganóv sent for Ermák, and said:

"I will not keep you any longer, if you are going to be so wanton."

But Ermák said:

"I do not like it myself, but I cannot control my people, they are
spoiled. Give us work to do!"

So Stroganóv said:

"Go beyond the Ural and fight Kuchum, and take possession of his land.
The Tsar will reward you for it."

And he showed the Tsar's letter to Ermák. Ermák rejoiced, and collected
his men, and said:

"You are shaming me before my master,--you are robbing without reason.
If you do not stop, he will drive you away, and where will you go then?
At the Vólga there is a large Tsarian army; we shall be caught, and then
we shall suffer for our old misdeeds. But if you feel lonesome, here is
work for you."

And he showed them the Tsar's letter, in which it said that Stroganóv
had been permitted to conquer land beyond the Ural. The Cossacks had a
consultation, and agreed to go. Ermák went to Stroganóv, and they began
to deliberate how they had best go.

They discussed how many barges they needed, how much grain, cattle,
guns, powder, lead, how many captive Tartar interpreters, and how many
foreigners as masters of gunnery.

Stroganóv thought:

"Though it may cost me much, I must give them everything or else they
will stay here and will ruin me."

Stroganóv agreed to everything, gathered what was needed, and fitted out
Ermák and the Cossacks.