On the 1st of September the Cossacks rowed with Ermák up the river
Chúsovaya on thirty-two barges, with twelve men in each. For four days
they rowed up the river, and then they turned into Serébryanaya River.
Beyond that point it was impossible to navigate. They asked the guides,
and learned that from there they had to cross the mountains and walk
overland about two hundred versts, and then the rivers would begin
again. The Cossacks stopped, built a town, and unloaded all their
equipment; they abandoned the boats, made carts, put everything upon
them, and started overland, across the mountains. All those places were
covered with forest, and nobody was living there. They marched for about
ten days, and struck the river Zharóvnya. Here they stopped again, and
made themselves boats. They loaded them, and rowed down the river. They
rowed five days, and then came more cheerful places,--meadows, forests,
lakes. There was a plenty of fish and of animals, and animals that had
not been scared by hunters. They rowed another day, and sailed into the
river Túra. Along the Túra they came on Tartar people and towns.

Ermák sent some Cossacks to take a look at a town, to see what it was
like, and whether there was any considerable force in it. Twenty
Cossacks went there, and they frightened all the Tartars, and seized the
whole town, and captured all the cattle. Some of the Tartars they
killed, and others they brought back alive.

Ermák asked the Tartars through his interpreters what kind of people
they were, and under whose rule they were living. The Tartars said that
they were in the Siberian kingdom, and that their king was Kuchum.

Ermák let the Tartars go, but three of the more intelligent he took with
him, to show him the road.

They rowed on. The farther they rowed, the larger did the river grow;
and the farther they went, the better did the places become.

They met more and more people; only they were not strong men. And all
the towns that were near the river the Cossacks conquered.

In one town they captured a large number of Tartars and one old man who
was held in respect. They asked him what kind of a man he was. He said:

"I am Tauzik, a servant of my king, Kuchum, who has made me a commander
in this town."

Ermák asked Tauzik about his king; how far his city of Sibír was;
whether Kuchum had a large force; whether he had much wealth. Tauzik
told him everything. He said:

"Kuchum is the first king in the world. His city of Sibír is the largest
city in the world. In that city," he said, "there are as many people and
as many cattle as there are stars in the heaven. There is no counting
his force, and not all the kings of the world can conquer him."

But Ermák said: