"Listen, boys! This is what we shall do. They have not yet seen us all.
Let us divide into three parts. Those in the middle will march straight
against them, and the other two divisions will surround them on the
right and on the left. When the middle detachment begins to walk toward
them, they will think that we are all there, and so they will leap
forward. Then we will strike them from the sides. That's the way, boys!
If we beat these, we shall not have to be afraid of anybody. We shall
ourselves be kings."

And so they did. When the middle detachment with Ermák advanced, the
Tartars screamed and leaped forward; then they were attacked by Iván
Koltsó on the right, and by Meshcheryákov the atamán on the left. The
Tartars were frightened, and ran. The Cossacks killed a great many of
them. After that nobody dared to oppose Ermák. And thus he entered the
very city of Sibír. And there Ermák settled down as though he were a
king.

Then kinglets came to see Ermák, to bow to him. Tartars began to settle
down in Sibír, and Kuchum and his son-in-law Mametkul were afraid to go
straight at him, but kept going around in a circle, wondering how they
might destroy him.

In the spring, during high water, the Tartars came running to Ermák, and
said:

"Mametkul is again going against you: he has gathered a large army, and
is making a stand near the river Vagáy."

Ermák made his way over rivers, swamps, brooks, and forests, stole up
with his Cossacks, rushed against Mametkul, killed a large number of
Tartars, and took Mametkul alive and brought him to Sibír. After that
there were only a few unruly Tartars left, and Ermák went that summer
against those that had not yet surrendered; and along the Irtýsh and the
Ob Ermák conquered so much land that one could not march around it in
two months.

When Ermák had conquered all that land, he sent a messenger to the
Stroganóvs, and a letter:

"I have taken Kuchum's city," he said, "and have captured Mametkul, and
have brought all the people here under my rule. Only I have lost many
Cossacks. Send people to us that we may feel more cheerful. There is no
end to the wealth in this country."

He sent to them many costly furs,--fox, marten, and sable furs.

Two years passed after that. Ermák was still holding Sibír, but no aid
came from Russia, and few Russians were left with Ermák.

One day the Tartar Karacha sent a messenger to Ermák, saying:

"We have surrendered to you, but now the Nogays are oppressing us. Send
your brave men to aid us! We shall together conquer the Nogays. And we
swear to you that we shall not insult your brave men."

Ermák believed their oath, and sent forty men under Iván Koltsó. When
these forty men came there, the Tartars rushed against them and killed
them, so there were still fewer Cossacks left.