The elder tied a stick to a rope, and the woman sat astride it, took
hold of the rope, and began to climb down into the well, while the elder
turned the well-wheel. The well was about twenty feet deep, and there
was less than three feet of water in it. The elder let her down slowly,
and kept asking:

"A little more?"

And the cow-tender cried from below:

"Just a little more!"

Suddenly the elder felt the rope give way: he called the cow-tender, but
she did not answer. The elder looked into the well, and saw the
cow-tender lying with her head in the water, and with her feet in the
air. The elder called for help, but there was nobody near by; only the
groom came. The elder told him to hold the wheel, and he himself pulled
out the rope, sat down on the stick, and went down into the well.

The moment the groom let the elder down to the water, the same thing
happened to the elder. He let go of the rope and fell head foremost upon
the woman. The groom began to cry, and ran to church to call the people.
Mass was over, and people were walking home. All the men and women
rushed to the well. They gathered around it, and everybody holloaed, but
nobody knew what to do. The young carpenter Iván made his way through
the crowd, took hold of the rope, sat down on the stick, and told them
to let him down. Iván tied himself to the rope with his belt. Two men
let him down, and the rest looked into the well, to see what would
become of Iván. Just as he was getting near the water, he dropped his
hands from the rope, and would have fallen down head foremost, if the
belt had not held him. All shouted, "Pull him out!" and Iván was pulled
out.

He hung like dead down from the belt, and his head was drooping and
beating against the sides of the well. His face was livid. They took him
off the rope and put him down on the ground. They thought that he was
dead; but he suddenly drew a deep breath, began to rattle, and soon
revived.

Others wanted to climb down, but an old peasant said that they could not
go down because there was bad air in the well, and that that bad air
killed people. Then the peasants ran for hooks and began to pull out the
elder and the woman. The elder's mother and wife cried at the well, and
others tried to quiet them; in the meantime the peasants put down the
hooks and tried to get out the dead people. Twice they got the elder
half-way up by his clothes; but he was heavy, and his clothes tore and
he fell down. Finally they stuck two hooks into him and pulled him out.
Then they pulled out the cow-tender. Both were dead and did not revive.