Then, when they examined the well, they found that indeed there was bad
air down in the well.

This air is so heavy that neither man nor any animal can live in it.
They let down a cat into the well, and the moment she reached the place
where the bad air was, she died. Not only can no animal live there, even
no candle will burn in it. They let down a candle, and the moment it
reached that spot, it went out.

There are places underground where that air gathers, and when a person
gets into one of those places, he dies at once. For this purpose they
have lamps in the mines, and before a man goes down to such a place,
they let down the lamp. If it goes out, no man can go there; then they
let down fresh air until the lamp will burn.

Near the city of Naples there is one such cave. There is always about
three feet of bad air in it on the ground, but above it the air is good.
A man can walk through the cave, and nothing will happen to him, but a
dog will die the moment it enters.

Where does this bad air come from? It is made of the same good air that
we breathe. If you gather a lot of people in one place, and close all
the doors and windows, so that no fresh air can get in, you will get the
same kind of an air as in the well, and people will die.

One hundred years ago, during a war, the Hindoos captured 146 Englishmen
and shut them up in a cave underground, where the air could not get in.

After the captured Englishmen had been there a few hours they began to
die, and toward the end of the night 123 had died, and the rest came out
more dead than alive, and ailing. At first the air had been good in the
cave; but when the captives had inhaled all the good air, and no fresh
air came in, it became bad, just like what was in the well, and they
died.

Why does the good air become bad when many people come together?

Because, when people breathe, they take in good air and breathe out bad
air.

HOW BALLOONS ARE MADE

If you take a blown-up bladder under water and let go of it, it will fly
up to the surface of the water and will swim on it. Just so, when water
is boiled in a pot, it becomes light at the bottom, over the fire,--it
is turned into a gas; and when a little of that water-gas is collected
it goes up as a bubble. First comes up one bubble, then another, and
when the whole water is heated, the bubbles come up without stopping.
Then the water boils.