There was once a learned Italian, Galvani. He had an electric machine,
and he showed his students what electricity was. He rubbed the glass
hard with silk with something smeared over it, and then he approached to
the glass a brass knob which was attached to the glass, and a spark flew
across from the glass to the brass knob. He explained to them that the
same kind of a spark came from sealing-wax and amber. He showed them
that feathers and bits of paper were now attracted, and now repelled, by
electricity, and explained to them the reason of it. He did all kinds of
experiments with electricity, and showed them all to his students.

Once his wife grew ill. He called a doctor and asked him how to cure
her. The doctor told him to prepare a frog soup for her. Galvani gave
order to have edible frogs caught. They caught them for him, killed
them, and left them on his table.

Before the cook came after the frogs, Galvani kept on showing the
electric machine to his students, and sending sparks through it.

Suddenly he saw the dead frogs jerk their legs on the table. He watched
them, and saw that every time when he sent a spark through the machine,
the frogs jerked their legs. Galvani collected more frogs, and began to
experiment with them. And every time he sent a spark through the
machine, the dead frogs moved their legs as though they were alive.

It occurred to Galvani that live frogs moved their legs because
electricity passed through them. Galvani knew that there was
electricity in the air; that it was more noticeable in the amber and
glass, but that it was also in the air, and that thunder and lightning
came from the electricity in the air.

So he tried to discover whether the dead frogs would not move their legs
from the electricity in the air. For this purpose he took the frogs,
skinned them, chopped off their heads, and hung them on brass hooks on
the roof, beneath an iron gutter. He thought that as soon as there
should be a storm, and the air should be filled with electricity, it
would pass by the brass rod to the frogs, and they would begin to move.

But the storm passed several times, and the frogs did not move. Galvani
was just taking them down, and as he did so a frog's leg touched the
iron gutter, and it jerked. Galvani took down the frogs and made the
following experiment: he tied to the brass hook an iron wire, and
touched the leg with the wire, and it jerked.