An old man's wife had fallen ill; he went himself to milk the cow. The
cow snorted,--she discovered that it was not her mistress, and would not
give him any milk. The mistress told her husband to put on her fur coat
and kerchief,--and the cow gave milk; but the old man threw open the
coat, and the cow scented him, and stopped giving milk.

When hounds follow an animal's trail, they never run on the track
itself, but to one side, about twenty paces from it. When an
inexperienced hunter wants to show the dog the scent, and sticks its
nose on the track, it will always jump to one side. The track itself
smells so strong to the dog that it cannot make out on the track whether
the animal has run ahead or backward. It runs to one side, and then only
discovers in what direction the scent grows stronger, and so follows the
animal. The dog does precisely what we do when somebody speaks very loud
in our ears; we step a distance away, and only then do we make out what
is being said. Or, if anything we are looking at is too close, we step
back and only then make it out.

Dogs recognize each other and make signs to each other by means of their
scent.

The scent is more delicate still in insects. A bee flies directly to the
flower that it wants to reach; a worm crawls to its leaf; a bedbug, a
flea, a mosquito scents a man a hundred thousand of its steps away.

If the particles which separate from a substance and enter our noses are
small, how small must be those particles that reach the organ of smell
of the insects!

TOUCH AND SIGHT

Twist the forefinger over the middle finger and touch a small ball with
them, so that it may roll between the two fingers, and shut your eyes.
You will think that there are two balls. Open your eyes,--and you will
see that it is one ball. The fingers have deceived you, but the eyes
correct you.

Look (best of all sidewise) at a good, clean mirror,--you will think
that it is a window or a door, and that there is something behind it.
Touch it with a finger,--and you will see that it is a mirror. The eyes
have deceived you, but the fingers correct you.

THE SILKWORM

I had some old mulberry-trees in my garden. My grandfather had planted
them. In the fall I was given a dram of silkworm eggs, and was advised
to hatch them and raise silkworms. These eggs are dark gray and so small
that in that dram I counted 5,835 of them. They are smaller than the
tiniest pin-head. They are quite dead; only when you crush them do they
crack.

The eggs had been lying around on my table, and I had almost forgotten
about them.