One day, in the spring, I went into the orchard and noticed the buds
swelling on the mulberry-trees, and where the sun beat down, the leaves
were out. I thought of the silkworm eggs, and took them apart at home
and gave them more room. The majority of the eggs were no longer dark
gray, as before, but some were light gray, while others were lighter
still, with a milky shade.

The next morning, I looked at the eggs, and saw that some of the worms
had hatched out, while other eggs were quite swollen. Evidently they
felt in their shells that their food was ripening.

The worms were black and shaggy, and so small that it was hard to see
them. I looked at them through a magnifying-glass, and saw that in the
eggs they lay curled up in rings, and when they came out they
straightened themselves out. I went to the garden for some mulberry
leaves; I got about three handfuls of leaves, which I put on my table,
and began to fix a place for the worms, as I had been taught to do.

While I was fixing the paper, the worms smelled their food and started
to crawl toward it. I pushed it away, and began to entice the worms to a
leaf, and they made for it, as dogs make for a piece of meat, crawling
after the leaf over the cloth of the table and across pencils, scissors,
and papers. Then I cut off a piece of paper, stuck holes through it with
a penknife, placed the leaf on top of it, and with the leaf put it down
on the worms. The worms crawled through the holes, climbed on the leaf,
and started to eat.

When the other worms hatched out, I again put a piece of paper with a
leaf on them, and all crawled through the holes and began to eat. The
worms gathered on each leaf and nibbled at it from its edges. Then, when
they had eaten everything, they crawled on the paper and looked for more
food. Then I put on them new sheets of perforated paper with mulberry
leaves upon them, and they crawled over to the new food.

They were lying on my shelf, and when there was no leaf, they climbed
about the shelf, and came to its very edge, but they never fell down,
though they are blind. The moment a worm comes to an edge, it lets out a
web from its mouth before descending, and then it attaches itself to it
and lets itself down; it hangs awhile in the air, and watches, and if it
wants to get down farther, it does so, and if not, it pulls itself up by
its web.