For days at a time the worms did nothing but eat. I had to give them
more and more leaves. When a new leaf was brought, and they transferred
themselves to it, they made a noise as though a rain were falling on
leaves,--that was when they began to eat the new leaf.

Thus the older worms lived for five days. They had grown very large and
began to eat ten times as much as ever. On the fifth day, I knew, they
would fall asleep, and waited for that to happen. Toward evening, on the
fifth day, one of the older worms stuck to the paper and stopped eating
and stirring.

The whole next day I watched it for a long time. I knew that worms
moulted several times, because they grew up and found it close in their
old hide, and so put on a new one.

My friend and I watched it by turns. In the evening my friend called
out:

"It has begun to undress itself,--come!"

I went up to him, and saw that the worm had stuck with its old hide to
the paper, had torn a hole at the mouth, thrust forth its head, and was
writhing and working to get out, but the old shirt held it fast. I
watched it for a long time as it writhed and could not get out, and I
wanted to help it. I barely touched it with my nail, but soon saw that I
had done something foolish. Under my nail there was something liquid,
and the worm died. At first I thought that it was blood, but later I
learned that the worm has a liquid mass under its skin, so that the
shirt may come off easier. With my nail I no doubt disturbed the new
shirt, for, though the worm crawled out, it soon died.

The other worms I did not touch. All of them came out of their shirts in
the same manner; only a few died, and nearly all came out safely, though
they struggled hard for a long time.

After shedding their skins, the worms began to eat more voraciously, and
more leaves were devoured. Four days later they again fell asleep, and
again crawled out of their skins. A still larger quantity of leaves was
now consumed by them, and they were now a quarter of an inch in length.
Six days later they fell asleep once more, and once more came out in new
skins, and now were very large and fat, and we had barely time to get
leaves ready for them.

On the ninth day the oldest worms quit eating entirely and climbed up
the shelves and rods. I gathered them in and gave them fresh leaves, but
they turned their heads away from them, and continued climbing. Then I
remembered that when the worms get ready to roll up into larvæ, they
stop eating and climb upward.

I left them alone, and began to watch what they would do.