"Now we must decide what to do, how to arrange matters," he said. "Help
along, children, lively! Like good fellows, drag things around, put them
up, and to-morrow we shall send Serézha with a note to sister Márya
Ivánovna, to the Nikítins, or we shall go there ourselves. Am I right,
Natásha? But now, fix things!"

"To-morrow is Sunday. I hope, Pierre, that first of all you will go to
mass," said his wife, kneeling in front of a trunk and opening it.

"That is so, it is Sunday! We shall by all means all of us go to the
Cathedral of the Assumption. Thus will our return begin. O Lord! When I
think of the day when I was for the last time in the Cathedral of the
Assumption! Do you remember, Natásha? But that is another matter."

And the head of the family rose quickly from the chair, on which he had
just seated himself.

"Now we must settle down!"

And without doing anything, he kept walking from one room to another.

"Well, shall we drink tea? Or are you tired, and do you want to rest?"

"Yes, yes," replied his wife, taking something out from the trunk. "You
wanted to go to the bath-house, did you not?"

"Yes--in my day it was near Stone Bridge. Serézha, go and find out
whether there is still a bath-house near Stone Bridge. This room here
Serézha and I shall occupy. Serézha! Will you be comfortable here?"

But Serézha had gone to find out about the bath-house.

"No, that will not do," he continued. "You will not have a straight
passage to the drawing-room. What do you think, Natásha?"

"Calm yourself, Pierre, everything will come out all right," Natásha
said, from another room, where peasants were bringing in things.

But Pierre was still under the influence of that ecstatic mood which the
arrival had evoked in him.

"Look there,--don't mix up Serézha's things! You have thrown his
snow-shoes down in the drawing-room." And he himself picked them up and
with great care, as though the whole future order of the quarters
depended upon it, leaned them against the door-post and tried to make
them stand there. But the snow-shoes did not stick to it, and, the
moment Pierre walked away from them, fell with a racket across the door.
Natálya Nikoláevna frowned and shuddered, but, seeing the cause of the
fall, she said:

"Sónya, darling, pick them up!"

"Pick them up, darling," repeated the husband, "and I will go to the
landlord, or else you will never get done. I must talk things over with
him."

"You had better send for him, Pierre. Why should you trouble yourself?"

Pierre assented.

"Sónya, bring him here, what do you call him? M. Cavalier, if you
please. Tell him that we want to speak about everything."

"Chevalier, papa," said Sónya, ready to go out.