"Where are you going, Pákhtin," said a minister's son, having noticed
during the game that Pákhtin had got up, pulled his waistcoat down, and
emptied his champagne in a large gulp.

"Syévernikov has invited me," said Pákhtin, feeling a restlessness in
his legs. "Well, will you go there?"

"Anastásya, Anastásya, please unlock the door for me." That was a
well-known gipsy-song, which was in vogue at that time.

"Perhaps. And you?"

"Where shall I, an old married man, go?"

"Well!"

Pákhtin, smiling, went to the glass hall, to join Syévernikov. He was
fond of having his last word appear to be a joke. And so it came out at
that time, too.

"Well, how is the countess's health?" he asked, walking over to
Syévernikov, who had not called him at all, but who, according to
Pákhtin's surmise, should more than any one else learn of the arrival of
the Labázovs. Syévernikov had somehow been mixed up with the affair of
the 14th, and was a friend of the Decembrists. The countess's health was
much better, and Pákhtin was very glad to hear it.

"Do you know, Labázov has arrived; he is staying at Chevalier's."

"You don't say so! We are old friends. How glad I am! How glad! The poor
old fellow must have grown old. His wife wrote to my wife--"

But Syévernikov did not finish saying what it was she had written,
because his partners, who were playing without trumps, had made some
mistake. While speaking with Iván Pávlovich, he kept an eye on them, and
now he leaned forward with his whole body against the table, and,
thumping it with his hands, he tried to prove that they ought to have
played from the seven. Iván Pávlovich got up and, going up to another
table, in the middle of a conversation informed another worthy gentleman
of his bit of news, again got up, and repeated the same at a third
table. The worthy gentlemen were all glad to hear of the arrival of the
Labázovs, so that, upon returning to the billiard-room, Iván Pávlovich,
who at first had had his misgivings about whether he had to rejoice in
the return of the Labázovs, or not, no longer started with an
introduction about the ball, about an article in the _Messenger_, about
health, or weather, but approached everybody directly with the
enthusiastic announcement of the safe return of the famous Decembrist.

The old man, who was still vainly endeavouring to hit the white ball
with his cue, would, in Pákhtin's opinion, be very much delighted to
hear the news. He went up to him.

"Are you playing well, your Excellency?" he said, just as the old man
stuck his cue into the marker's red waistcoat, wishing to indicate that
it had to be chalked.