"Your Excellency" was not said, as you might think, from a desire of
being subservient (no, that was not the fashion in '56). Iván Pávlovich
was in the habit of calling the old man by his name and patronymic, but
this was said partly as a joke on men who spoke that way, partly in
order to hint that he knew full well to whom he was talking, and yet was
taking liberties, and partly in truth: altogether it was a very delicate
jest.

"I have just learned that Peter Labázov has returned. Straight from
Siberia, with his whole family."

These words Pákhtin pronounced just as the old man again missed his
ball, for such was his bad luck.

"If he has returned as cracked as he went away, there is no cause for
rejoicing," gruffly said the old man, who was irritated by his
incomprehensible failure.

This statement vexed Iván Pávlovich, and again he was at a loss whether
there was any cause for rejoicing at Labázov's return, and, in order
fully to settle his doubt, he directed his steps to a room, where
generally assembled the clever people, who knew the meaning and value of
each thing, and, in short, knew everything. Iván Pávlovich was on the
same footing of friendship with the frequenters of the intellectual room
as with the gilded youths and with the dignitaries. It is true, he had
no special place of his own in the intellectual room, but nobody was
surprised to see him enter and seat himself on a divan. They were just
discussing in what year and upon what occasion there had taken place a
quarrel between two Russian journalists. Waiting for a moment of
silence, Iván Pávlovich communicated his bit of news, not as something
joyous, nor as an unimportant event, but as though part of the
conversation. But immediately, from the way the "intellectuals" (I use
the word "intellectuals" as a name for the frequenters of the
"intellectual" room) received the news and began to discuss it, Iván
Pávlovich understood that it belonged there, and that only there would
it receive such an elaboration as to enable him to carry it farther and
_savoir à quoi s'en tenir_.

"Labázov was the only one who was wanting," said one of the
intellectuals; "now all the living Decembrists have returned to Russia."

"He was one of the herd of the famous--" said Pákhtin, still with an
inquisitive glance, prepared to make that quotation both jocular and
serious.