"Yes; but he declined it only because Prince Iván wrote him before the
coronation, excusing himself and saying that if he had not taken it, it
would have been confiscated, and that he had children and debts, and
that now he was unable to return it to him. Peter Labázov replied to him
in two lines: 'Neither I nor my heirs have any right, nor can have any
right, to the property legally appropriated by you.' That was all. How
was that? And Prince Iván swallowed it, and in delight locked up that
document with the notes in a safe, and showed it to no one."

One of the peculiarities of the intellectual room was that its visitors
knew, whenever they wanted to know, everything that was taking place in
the world, no matter how secret the event might have been.

"Still it is a question," said a new interlocutor, "whether it was just
to deprive the children of Prince Iván of the property, with which they
have grown up and have been educated, and to which they thought they had
a right."

Thus the conversation was transferred to an abstract sphere, which did
not interest Pákhtin.

He felt the necessity of communicating the news to fresh people, and so
he rose and, speaking to the right and to the left, walked from one hall
to another. One of his fellow officers stopped him to give him the news
of Labázov's arrival.

"Who does not know that?" replied Iván Pávlovich, with a calm smile,
turning to the exit. The news had had time to complete its circle, and
was again returning to him.

There was nothing else to do in the club, and he went to an evening
party. It was not a special entertainment, but a salon where guests were
received any evening. There were there eight ladies, and one old
colonel, and all found it terribly dull. Pákhtin's firm gait alone and
his smiling face cheered the ladies and maidens. And the news was the
more appropriate, since the old Countess Fuks and her daughter were
present in the salon. When Pákhtin told nearly word for word what he had
heard in the intellectual room, Madame Fuks, shaking her head and
marvelling at her old age, began to recall how she used to go out
together with Natásha Krínski, the present Princess Labázov.