Pákhtin's solicitude of the evening before did not pass in vain: instead
of toys Peter Ivánovich found at home several visiting-cards of
distinguished Muscovites, who, in the year '56, regarded it as their
peremptory duty to show every attention possible to a famous exile, whom
they would under no consideration have wished to see three years before.
In the eyes of Chevalier, the porter, and the servants of the hotel, the
appearance of carriages asking for Peter Ivánovich, on that one morning
increased their respect and subserviency tenfold.

All those were name-day toys for Peter Ivánovich. No matter how much
tried in life, how clever a man may be, the expression of respect from
people respected by a large number of men is always agreeable. Peter
Ivánovich felt light of heart when Chevalier, bowing, offered to change
his apartments and asked him to order anything he might need, and
assured him that he regarded Peter Ivánovich's visit as a piece of luck,
and when, examining the visiting-cards and throwing them into a vase, he
called out the names of Count S----, Prince D----, and so forth.

Natálya Nikoláevna said that she would not receive anybody and that she
would go at once to the house of Márya Ivánovna, to which Peter
Ivánovich consented, though he wished very much to talk to some of the
visitors.

Only one visitor managed to get through before the refusal to meet him.
That was Pákhtin. If this man had been asked why he went away from the
Prechístenka to go to Gazette Lane, he would have been unable to give
any excuse, except that he was fond of everything new and remarkable,
and so had come to see Peter Ivánovich, as something rare. One would
think that, coming to see a stranger for no other reason than that, he
would have been embarrassed. But the contrary was true. Peter Ivánovich
and his son and Sónya Petróvna became embarrassed. Natálya Nikoláevna
was too much of a _grande dame_ to become embarrassed for any reason
whatever. The weary glance of her beautiful black eyes was calmly
lowered on Pákhtin. But Pákhtin was refreshing, self-contented, and
gaily amiable, as always. He was a friend of Márya Ivánovna's.

"Ah!" said Natálya Nikoláevna.

"Not a friend,--the difference of our years,--but she has always been
kind to me."

Pákhtin was an old admirer of Peter Ivánovich's,--he knew his
companions. He hoped that he could be useful to the newcomers. He would
have appeared the previous evening, but could not find the time, and
begged to be excused, and sat down and talked for a long time.

"Yes, I must tell you, I have found many changes in Russia since then,"
Peter Ivánovich said, in reply to a question.