The moment Peter Ivánovich began to speak, you ought to have seen with
what respectful attention Pákhtin received every word that flew out of
the mouth of the distinguished old man, and how after each sentence, at
times after a word, Pákhtin with a nod, a smile, or a motion of his eyes
gave him to understand that he had received and accepted the memorable
sentence or word.

The weary glance approved of that manoeuvre. Sergyéy Petróvich seemed to
be afraid lest his father's conversation should not be weighty enough,
corresponding to the attention of the hearer. Sónya Petróvna, on the
contrary, smiled that imperceptible self-satisfied smile which people
smile who have caught a man's ridiculous side. It seemed to her that
nothing was to be got from him, that he was a "shyúshka," as she and her
brother nicknamed a certain class of people.

Peter Ivánovich declared that during his journey he had seen enormous
changes, which gave him pleasure.

"There is no comparison, the masses--the peasants--stand so much higher
now, have so much greater consciousness of their dignity," he said, as
though repeating some old phrases. "I must say that the masses have
always interested me most. I am of the opinion that the strength of
Russia does not lie in us, but in the masses," and so forth.

Peter Ivánovich with characteristic zeal evolved his more or less
original ideas in regard to many important subjects. We shall hear more
of them in fuller form. Pákhtin was melting for joy, and fully agreed
with him in everything.

"You must by all means meet the Aksátovs. Will you permit me to
introduce them to you, prince? You know they have permitted him to
publish his periodical. To-morrow, they say, the first number will
appear. I have also read his remarkable article on the consistency of
the theory of science in the abstract. Remarkably interesting. Another
article, the history of Servia in the eleventh century, of that famous
general Karbovánets, is also very interesting. Altogether an enormous
step."

"Indeed," said Peter Ivánovich. But he was apparently not interested in
all these bits of information; he did not even know the names and merits
of all those men whom Pákhtin quoted as universally known.

But Natálya Nikoláevna, without denying the necessity of knowing all
these men and conditions, remarked in justification of her husband that
Pierre received his periodicals very late. He read entirely too much.

"Papa, shall we not go to aunty?" asked Sónya, upon coming in.

"We shall, but we must have our breakfast. Won't you have anything?"

Pákhtin naturally declined, but Peter Ivánovich, with the hospitality
characteristic of every Russian and of him in particular, insisted that
Pákhtin should eat and drink something. He himself emptied a wine-glass
of vódka and a tumbler of Bordeaux. Pákhtin noticed that as he was
filling his glass, Natálya accidentally turned away from it, and the son
cast a peculiar glance on his father's hands.