After the wine, Peter Ivánovich, in response to Pákhtin's questions
about what his opinion was in respect to the new literature, the new
tendency, the war, the peace (Pákhtin had a knack of uniting the most
diversified subjects into one senseless but smooth conversation), in
response to these questions Peter Ivánovich at once replied with one
general _profession de foi_, and either under the influence of the wine,
or of the subject of the conversation, he became so excited that tears
appeared in his eyes, and Pákhtin, too, was in ecstasy, and himself
became tearful, and without embarrassment expressed his conviction that
Peter Ivánovich was now in advance of all the foremost men and should
become the head of all the parties. Peter Ivánovich's eyes became
inflamed,--he believed what Pákhtin was telling him,--and he would have
continued talking for a long time, if Sónya Petróvna had not schemed to
get Natálya Nikoláevna to put on her mantilla, and had not come herself
to raise Peter Ivánovich from his seat. He poured out the rest of the
wine into a glass, but Sónya Petróvna drank it.

"What is this?"

"I have not had any yet, papa, pardon."

He smiled.

"Well, let us go to Márya Ivánovna's. You will excuse us, Monsieur
Pákhtin."

And Peter Ivánovich left the room, carrying his head high. In the
vestibule he met a general, who had come to call on his old
acquaintance. They had not seen each other for thirty-five years. The
general was toothless and bald.

"How fresh you still are!" he said. "Evidently Siberia is better than
St. Petersburg. These are your family,--introduce me to them! What a
fine fellow your son is! So to dinner to-morrow?"

"Yes, yes, by all means."

On the porch they met the famous Chikháev, another old acquaintance.

"How did you find out that I had arrived?"

"It would be a shame for Moscow if it did not know it. It is a shame
that you were not met at the barrier. Where do you dine? No doubt with
your sister, Márya Ivánovna. Very well, I shall be there myself."

Peter Ivánovich always had the aspect of a proud man for one who could
not through that exterior make out the expression of unspeakable
goodness and impressionableness; but just then even Márya Nikoláevna was
delighted to see his unwonted dignity, and Sónya Petróvna smiled with
her eyes, as she looked at him. They arrived at the house of Márya
Ivánovna. Márya Ivánovna was Peter Ivánovich's godmother and ten years
his senior. She was an old maid.

Her history, why she did not get married, and how she had passed her
youth, I will tell some time later.