She got up, took a few steps in the parlour, and was on the point of
entering the cabinet when the door opened, and Madame Byéshev's
wrinkled, grayish face, expressing joyous terror, was thrust through the
door.

"Márya Ivánovna, prepare yourself," she said.

"A letter?"

"No, something better--"

But before she had a chance to finish, a man's loud voice was heard in
the antechamber:

"Where is she? Go, Natásha."

"He!" muttered Márya Ivánovna, walking with long, firm steps toward her
brother. She met them all as though she had last seen them the day
before.

"When didst thou arrive? Where have you stopped? How have you come,--in
a carriage?" Such were the questions which Márya Ivánovna put, walking
with them to the drawing-room and not hearing the answers, and looking
with large eyes, now upon one, and now upon another. Madame Byéshev was
surprised at this calm, even indifference, and did not approve of it.
They all smiled; the conversation died down, and Márya Ivánovna looked
silently and seriously at her brother.

"How are you?" asked Peter Ivánovich, taking her hand, and smiling.

Peter Ivánovich said "you" to her, though she had said "thou." Márya
Ivánovna once more looked at his gray beard, his bald head, his teeth,
his wrinkles, his eyes, his sunburnt face, and recognized all that.

"Here is my Sónya."

But she did not look around.

"What a stup--" her voice faltered, and she took hold of his bald head
with her large white hands. "What a stupid you are," she had intended to
say, "not to have prepared me," but her shoulders and breast began to
tremble, her old face twitched, and she burst out into sobs, pressing to
her breast his bald head, and repeating: "What a stupid you are not to
have prepared me!"

Peter Ivánovich no longer appeared as such a great man to himself, not
so important as he had appeared on Chevalier's porch. His back was
resting against a chair, but his head was in his sister's arms, his nose
was pressed against her corset, his nose was tickled, his hair
dishevelled, and there were tears in his eyes. But he felt happy.

When this outburst of joyous tears was over, Márya Ivánovna understood
what had happened and believed it, and began to examine them all. But
several times during the course of the day, whenever she recalled what
he had been then, and what she had been, and what they were now, and
whenever the past misfortunes, and past joys and loves, vividly rose in
her imagination, she was again seized by emotion, and got up and
repeated: "What a stupid you are, Pierre, what a stupid not to have
prepared me!"