"Why did you not come straight to me? I should have found room for you,"
said Márya Ivánovna. "At least, stay to dinner. You will not feel
lonesome, Sergyéy,--a young, brave Sevastopol soldier is dining here
to-day. Do you not know Nikoláy Mikháylovich's son? He is a writer,--has
written something nice. I have not read it, but they praise it, and he
is a dear fellow,--I shall send for him. Chikháev, too, wanted to come.
He is a babbler,--I do not like him. Has he already called on you? Have
you seen Nikíta? That is all nonsense. What do you intend to do? How are
you, how is your health, Natálya? What are you going to do with this
young fellow, and with this beauty?"

But the conversation somehow did not flow.

Before dinner Natálya Nikoláevna went with the children to an old aunt;
brother and sister were left alone, and he began to tell her of his
plans.

"Sónya is a young lady, she has to be taken out; consequently, we are
going to live in Moscow," said Márya Ivánovna.

"Never."

"Serézha has to serve."

"Never."

"You are still as crazy as ever."

But she was just as fond of the crazy man.

"First we must stay here, then go to the country, and show everything to
the children."

"It is my rule not to interfere in family matters," said Márya
Ivánovna, after calming down from her agitation, "and not to give
advice. A young man has to serve, that I have always thought, and now
more than ever. You do not know, Pierre, what these young men nowadays
are. I know them all: there, Prince Dmítri's son is all ruined. Their
own fault. I am not afraid of anybody, I am an old woman. It is not
good." And she began to talk about the government. She was dissatisfied
with it for the excessive liberty which was given to everything. "The
one good thing they have done was to let you out. That is good."

Pierre began to defend it, but Márya Ivánovna was not Pákhtin: they
could come to no terms. She grew excited.

"What business have you to defend it? You are just as senseless as ever,
I see."

Peter Ivánovich grew silent, with a smile which showed that he did not
surrender, but that he did not wish to quarrel with Márya Ivánovna.

"You are smiling. We know that. You do not wish to discuss with me, a
woman," she, said, merrily and kindly, and casting a shrewd, intelligent
glance at her brother, such as could not be expected from her old,
large-featured face. "You could not convince me, my friend. I am ending
my three score and ten. I have not been a fool all that time, and have
seen a thing or two. I have read none of your books, and I never will.
There is only nonsense in them!"

"Well, how do you like my children? Serézha?" Peter Ivánovich said, with
the same smile.