"Wait, wait!" his sister replied, with a threatening gesture. "Don't
switch me off on your children! We shall have time to talk about them.
Here is what I wanted to tell you. You are a senseless man, as senseless
as ever, I see it in your eye. Now they are going to carry you in their
arms. Such is the fashion. You are all in vogue now. Yes, yes, I see by
your eyes that you are as senseless as ever," she added, in response to
his smile. "Keep away, I implore you in the name of Jesus Christ our
Lord, from those modern liberals. God knows what they are up to. I know
it will not end well. Our government is silent just now, but when it
comes later to showing up the nails, you will recall my words. I am
afraid lest you should get mixed up in things again. Give it up! It is
all nonsense. You have children."

"Evidently you do not know me, Márya Ivánovna," said her brother.

"All right, all right, we shall see. Either I do not know you, or you do
not know yourself. I just told you what I had on my heart, and if you
will listen to me, well and good. Now we can talk about Serézha. What
kind of a lad is he?" She wanted to say, "I do not like him very much,"
but she only said: "He resembles his mother remarkably: they are like
two drops of water. Sónya is you all over,--I like her very much, very
much--so sweet and open. She is a dear. Where is she, Sónya? Yes, I
forgot."

"How shall I tell you? Sónya will make a good wife and a good mother,
but my Serézha is clever, very clever,--nobody will take that from him.
He studied well,--a little lazy. He is very fond of the natural
sciences. We have been fortunate: we had an excellent, excellent
teacher. He wants to enter the university,--to attend lectures on the
natural sciences, chemistry--"

Márya Ivánovna scarcely listened when her brother began to speak of the
natural sciences. She seemed to feel sad, especially when he mentioned
chemistry. She heaved a deep sigh and replied directly to that train of
thoughts which the natural sciences evoked in her.

"If you knew how sorry I am for them, Pierre," she said, with sincere,
calm, humble sadness. "So sorry, so sorry. A whole life before them. Oh,
how much they will suffer yet!"

"Well, we must hope that they will be more fortunate than we."

"God grant it, God grant it! It is hard to live, Pierre! Take this one
advice from me, my dear: don't philosophize! What a stupid you are,
Pierre, oh, what a stupid! But I must attend to matters. I have invited
a lot of people, but how am I going to feed them?" She flared up, turned
away, and rang the bell.

"Call Tarás!"

"Is the old man still with you?"

"Yes; why, he is a boy in comparison with me."