Tarás was angry and clean, but he undertook to get everything done.

Soon Natálya Nikoláevna and Sónya, agleam with cold and happiness, and
rustling in their dresses, entered the room; Serézha was still out,
attending to some purchases.

"Let me get a good look at her!"

Márya Ivánovna took her face. Natálya Nikoláevna began to tell
something.

THE DECEMBRISTS

SECOND FRAGMENT

(Variant of the First Chapter)

The litigation "about the seizure in the Government of Pénza, County of
Krasnoslobódsk, by the landed proprietor and ex-lieutenant of the
Guards, Iván Apýkhtin, of four thousand desyatínas of land from the
neighbouring Crown peasants of the village of Izlegóshcha," was through
the solicitude of the peasants' representative, Iván Mirónov, decided in
the court of the first instance--the County Court--in favour of the
peasants, and the enormous parcel of land, partly in forest, and partly
in ploughings which had been broken by Apýkhtin's serfs, in the year
1815 returned into the possession of the peasants, and they in the year
1816 sowed in this land and harvested.

The winning of this irregular case by the peasants surprised all the
neighbours and even the peasants themselves. This success of theirs
could be explained only on the supposition that Iván Petróvich Apýkhtin,
a very meek, peaceful man, who was opposed to litigations and was
convinced of the righteousness of this matter, had taken no measures
against the action of the peasants. On the other hand, Iván Mirónov, the
peasants' representative, a dry, hook-nosed, literate peasant, who had
been a township elder and had acted in the capacity of collector of
taxes, had collected fifty kopeks from each peasant, which money he
cleverly applied in the distribution of presents, and had very shrewdly
conducted the whole affair.

Immediately after the decision handed down by the County Court,
Apýkhtin, seeing the danger, gave a power of attorney to the shrewd
manumitted serf, Ilyá Mitrofánov, who appealed to the higher court
against the decision of the County Court. Ilyá Mitrofánov managed the
affair so shrewdly that, in spite of all the cunning of the peasants'
representative, Iván Mirónov, in spite of the considerable presents
distributed by him to the members of the higher court, the case was
retried in the Government Court in favour of the proprietor, and the
land was to go back to him from the peasants, of which fact their
representative was duly informed.