The representative, Iván Mirónov, told the peasants at the meeting of
the Commune that the gentleman in the Government capital had pulled the
proprietor's leg and had "mixed up" the whole business, so that they
wanted to take the land back again, but that the proprietor would not be
successful, because he had a petition all written up to be sent to the
Senate, and that then the land would be for ever confirmed to the
peasants; all they had to do was to collect a rouble from each soul. The
peasants decided to collect the money and again to entrust the whole
matter to Iván Mirónov. When Mirónov had all the money in his hands, he
went to St. Petersburg.

When, in the year 1817, during Passion-week,--it fell late that
year,--the time came to plough the ground, the Izlegóshcha peasants
began to discuss at a meeting whether they ought to plough the land
under litigation during that year, or not; and, although Apýkhtin's
clerk had come to see them during Lent with the order that they should
not plough the land and should come to some agreement with him in regard
to the rye already planted in what had been the doubtful, and now was
Apýkhtin's land, the peasants, for the very reason that the winter crop
had been sowed on the debatable land, and because Apýkhtin, in his
desire to avoid being unfair to them, wished to arbitrate the matter
with them, decided to plough the land under litigation and to take
possession of it before touching any other fields.

On the very day when the peasants went out to plough, which was Maundy
Thursday, Iván Petróvich Apýkhtin, who had been preparing himself for
communion during the Passion-week, went to communion, and early in the
morning drove to the church in the village of Izlegóshcha, of which he
was a parishioner, and there he, without knowing anything about the
matter, amicably chatted with the church elder. Iván Petróvich had been
to confession the night before, and had attended vigils at home; in the
morning he had himself read the Rules, and at eight o'clock had left the
house. They waited for him with the mass. As he stood at the altar,
where he usually stood, Iván Petróvich rather reflected than prayed,
which made him dissatisfied with himself.

Like many people of that time, and, so far as that goes, of all times,
he was not quite clear in matters of religion. He was past fifty years
of age; he never omitted carrying out any rite, attended church, and
went to communion once a year; in talking to his only daughter, he
instructed her in the articles of faith; but, if he had been asked
whether he really believed, he would not have known what to reply.