"I have asked forgiveness of my wife, of Mánya" (his daughter), "of the
nurse, of my valet, Volódya, but it is his forgiveness that I ought to
ask for, and I ought to forgive him," thought Iván Petróvich, and he
decided that after matins he would ask Iván Fedótov to forgive him.

And so he did.

*       *       *       *       *

There were but few people in church. The country people were in the
habit of going to communion in the first and in the fourth week. Now
there were only forty men and women present, who had not had time to go
to communion before, a few old peasant women, the church servants, and
the manorial people of the Apýkhtins and his rich neighbours, the
Chernýshevs. There was also there an old woman, a relative of the
Chernýshevs, who was living with them, and a deacon's widow, whose son
the Chernýshevs, in the goodness of their hearts, had educated and made
a man of, and who now was serving as an official in the Senate. Between
the matins and the mass there were even fewer people left in the church.
There were left two beggar women, who were sitting in the corner and
conversing with each other and looking at Iván Petróvich with the
evident desire to congratulate him and talk with him, and two
lackeys,--one his own, in livery, and the other, Chernýshev's, who had
come with the old woman. These two were also whispering in an animated
manner to each other, just as Iván Petróvich came out from the
altar-place; when they saw him, they grew silent. There was also a
woman in a tall head-gear with a pearl face-ornament and in a white fur
coat, with which she covered up a sick child, who was crying, and whom
she was attempting to quiet; and another, a stooping old woman, also in
a head-gear, but with a woollen face-ornament and a white kerchief,
which was tied in the fashion of old women, and in a gray gathered coat
with an iris-design on the back, who, kneeling in the middle of the
church, and turning to an old image between two latticed windows, over
which hung a new scarf with red edges, was praying so fervently,
solemnly, and impassionately that one could not fail directing one's
attention to her.