At the third verst, near a chapel, the outrider bore to the left, into a
cross-road, and the coachman shouted to him for having turned in so
abruptly that the centre horses were struck by the shaft; and the
carriage almost glided all the way down-hill. Before reaching the house,
the outrider looked back at the coachman and pointed to something; the
coachman looked back at the lackey, and indicated something to him. And
all of them looked in the same direction.

"What are you looking at?" asked Iván Petróvich.

"Geese," said Míshka.

"Where?"

Though he strained his vision, he could not see them.

"There they are. There is the forest, and there is the cloud, so be
pleased to look between the two."

Iván Petróvich could not see anything.

"It is time for them. Why, it is less than a week to Annunciation."

"That's so."

"Well, go on!"

Near a puddle, Míshka jumped down from the footboard and tested the
road, again climbed up, and the carriage safely drove on the pond dam in
the garden, ascended the avenue, drove past the cellar and the laundry,
from which water was falling, and nimbly rolled up and stopped at the
porch. The Chernýshev calash had just left the yard. From the house at
once ran the servants: gloomy old Danílych with the side whiskers,
Nikoláy, Míshka's brother, and the boy Pavlúshka; and after them came a
girl with large black eyes and red arms, which were bared above the
elbow, and with just such a bared neck.

"Márya Ivánovna, Márya Ivánovna! Where are you going? Your mother will
be worried. You will have time," was heard the voice of fat Katerína
behind her.

But the girl paid no attention to her; just as her father had expected
her to do, she took hold of his arm and looked at him with a strange
glance.

"Well, papa, have you been to communion?" she asked, as though in dread.

"Yes. You look as though you were afraid that I am such a sinner that I
could not receive the communion."

The girl was apparently offended by her father's jest at such a solemn
moment. She heaved a sigh and, following him, held his hand, which she
kissed.

"Who is here?"

"Young Chernýshev. He is in the drawing-room."

"Is mamma up? How is she?"

"Mamma feels better to-day. She is sitting down-stairs."

In the passage room Iván Petróvich was met by nurse Evprakséya, clerk
Andréy Ivánovich, and a surveyor, who was living at the house, in order
to lay out some land. All of them congratulated Iván Petróvich. In the
drawing-room sat Luíza Kárlovna Trugóni, for ten years a friend of the
house, an emigrant governess, and a young man of sixteen years,
Chernýshev, with his French tutor.

THE DECEMBRISTS

THIRD FRAGMENT

(Variant of the First Chapter)