Just so, with either method, the mechanical side of instruction
predominates over the mental. In either school the pupils excel in a
good handwriting and good enunciation with absolutely exact reading,
that is, not as it is spoken, but as it is written. Just so, with either
method, there always reigns an external order in the school, and the
children are in constant fear and can be guided only with the greatest
severity. Mr. Korolév has incidentally remarked that in instruction
according to the sound method blows are not neglected. I have seen the
same in the schools of the German method, and I assume that without
blows it is impossible to get along even in the new German school,
because, like the church school, it teaches without asking what the
pupil finds interesting to know, but what, in the teacher's opinion,
seems necessary, and so the school can be based only on compulsion.
Compulsion is attained with children generally by means of blows. The
church and the new German school, starting from the same principles and
arriving at the same results, are absolutely identical. But, if it came
to choosing one of the two, I should still prefer the church school. The
defects are the same, but on the side of the church school is the custom
of a thousand years and the authority of the church, which is so
powerful with the masses.

Having finished the analysis and criticism of the German school, I
consider it necessary,--in view of what I have said, namely, that
criticism is fruitful only when, condemning, it points out how that
which is bad ought to be,--I consider it necessary to speak of those
foundations of instruction which I regard as legitimate, and on which I
rear my method of instruction.

In order to elucidate in what I find these unquestionable foundations of
every pedagogical activity, I shall be compelled to repeat myself, that
is, to repeat what I said fifteen years ago in the pedagogical
periodical, _Yásnaya Polyána_, which I then published. This repetition
will not be tedious for the pedagogues of the new school, because what I
then wrote is not exactly forgotten, but has never been considered by
the pedagogues,--and yet I still think that just what was expressed by
me at that time might have placed pedagogy, as a theory, on a firm
foundation. Fifteen years ago, when I took up the matter of popular
education without any preconceived theories or views on the subject,
with the one desire to advance the matter in a direct and
straightforward manner, I, as a teacher in my school, was at once
confronted with two questions: (1) What must I teach? and (2) How must
I teach it?

At that time, even as at the present, there existed the greatest
diversity of opinion in the answers to these questions.