Beginning with the year 1862 the idea that education was necessary has
more and more spread among the masses: on all sides schools were
established by church servants, hired teachers, and the Communes.
Whether good or bad, these schools were spontaneous and grew out
directly from the needs of the masses; with the introduction of the law
of 1864 this tendency was increased, and in 1870 there were, according
to the reports, about sixty schools in Krapívensk County. Since then
officials of the ministry and members of the County Council have begun
to meddle more and more with school matters, and in Krapívensk County
forty schools have been closed and schools of a lower order have been
prohibited from being opened. I know that those who closed those schools
affirm that these schools existed only nominally and were very bad; but
I cannot believe it, because I know well-instructed pupils from three
villages, Trósna, Lamíntsovo, and Yásnaya Polyána, where schools were
closed. I also know—-and this will seem incredible to many—-what is
meant by prohibiting the opening of schools. It means that, on the basis
of a circular of the ministry of public instruction, which spoke of the
prohibition of unreliable teachers (this, no doubt, had reference to the
Nihilists), the school council transferred this prohibition to the minor
schools, taught by sextons, soldiers, and so forth, which the peasants
themselves had opened, and which, no doubt, are not at all comprised in
the circular. But, instead, there exist twenty schools with teachers,
who are supposed to be good because they receive a salary of two hundred
roubles in silver, and the County Council has distributed Ushínski's
text-books, and these schools are called one-class schools, because they
teach in them according to a programme, and the whole year around, that
is, also in summer, with the exception of July and August.

Leaving aside the question of the quality of the former schools, we
shall now take a glance at their administrative side, and we will
compare, from this side, what was before, with what is now. In the
administrative, external side of the school there are five main
subjects, which are so closely connected with the school business itself
that on their good or bad structure depend to a great extent the success
and dissemination of popular education. These five subjects are: (1) the
school building, (2) the schedule of instruction, (3) the distribution
of the schools according to localities, (4) the choice of the teacher,
and--what is most important--(5) the material means, the remuneration of
the teachers.