In regard to the school building the masses rarely have any difficulty,
when they start a school for themselves, and if the Commune is rich and
there are any communal buildings, such as a storehouse or a deserted
inn, the Commune fixes it up; if there is none, it buys a building, at
times even from a landed proprietor, or it builds one of its own. If the
Commune is not well-to-do and is small, it hires quarters from a
peasant, or establishes a rotation, and the teacher passes from hut to
hut. If the Commune, as it most generally does, selects a teacher from
its own midst, a manorial servant, a soldier, or a church servant, the
school is located at the house of that person, and the Commune looks
only after the heating. In any case, I have never heard that the
question of the location of the school ever troubled a Commune, or that
half the sum set aside for instruction should be lost, as is done by
school councils, on the buildings, nay, not even one-sixth or one-tenth
of the whole sum. The peasant Communes have arranged it one way or
another, but the question of the school building has never been regarded
as troublesome. Only under the influence of the higher authorities do
there occur cases where the Communes build brick buildings with iron
roofs. The peasants assume that the school is not in the structure, but
in the teacher, and that the school is not a permanent institution, but
that as soon as the parents have acquired knowledge, the next generation
will get the rudiments without a teacher. But the County Council
department of the ministry always assumes--since for it the whole
problem consists in inspecting and classifying--that the chief
foundation of the school is the structure and that the school is a
permanent establishment, and so, as far as I know, now spends about
one-half of its money on buildings, and inscribes empty school buildings
in the list of the schools of the third order. In the Krapívensk County
Council seven hundred roubles out of two thousand roubles are spent on
buildings. The ministerial department cannot admit that the teacher
(that educated pedagogue who is assumed for the masses) would lower
himself to such an extent as to be willing to go, like a tailor, from
hut to hut, or to teach in a smoky house. But the masses assume nothing
and only know that for their money they can hire whom they please, and
that, if they, the hiring peasants, live in smoky huts, the hired
teacher has no reason to turn up his nose at them.

In regard to the second question, about the division of the school time,
the masses have always and everywhere invariably expressed one demand,
and that is that the instruction shall be carried on in the winter only.