Do we not see that now, when the simplest arithmetical calculation shows
that the only means for the success of the schools is the simplification
of methods, the simplicity and cheapness of the arrangement of the
school,--the pedagogues are busy, as though having made a wager to
concoct a most difficult, most complicated, and expensive (and, I must
add, most bad) instruction? In the manuals of Messrs. Bunákov and
Evtushévski I have figured up three hundred roubles' worth of aids to
instruction which, in their opinion, are absolutely necessary for the
establishment of a primary school. All they talk about in pedagogical
circles is how to prepare improved teachers in the seminaries, so that a
village might not be able to get them even for four hundred roubles. On
that road of perfection, on which pedagogy stands, it is quite apparent
to me that if 120,000 roubles were collected in a county, the pedagogues
would find use for them all in twenty schools, with adjustable tables,
seminaries for teachers, and so forth. Have we not seen that forty
schools were closed in Krapívensk County, and that those who closed them
were fully convinced that they thus advanced the cause of education, for
now they have twenty "good" schools? But what is most remarkable is that
those who express these demands are not in the least interested in
knowing whether the masses for whom they are preparing all these things
want them, and still less, who is going to pay for it all. But the
County Councils are so befogged by these demands that they do not see
the simple calculation and the simple justice. It is as though a man
asked me to buy him two puds of flour for a month, and I bought him for
that rouble a box of perfumed confectionery and reproached him for his
ignorance, because he was dissatisfied.

As I wish to remain true to my rule that criticism should point out how
that which is not good ought to be, I shall try to show how the whole
school business ought to be arranged, if it is not to be a plaything,
and is to have a future. The answer is the same as to the first two
questions,--freedom. The masses must be given the freedom to arrange
their schools as they wish, and as little as possible should any one
interfere in their arrangement. Only with such a view of the matter will
all the obstacles to the dissemination of the schools be obviated,
though they have seemed insuperable. The chief obstacles are the
insufficiency of the means and the impossibility of increasing them. To
the first the masses reply that they are using all the measures at
their command to make the schools cost little; to the second they reply
that the means will always be found so long as they themselves are the
masters, and that they are not willing to increase the means for the
support of that which they do not need.