This member of the County Council, or the educated person hired by it,
must have the best model school, with an assistant, in the county. In
addition to conducting this school and applying to it all the newest
methods of instruction, this head teacher ought to keep an eye on all
the other schools. This school is not to be a model in the sense of
introducing into it all kinds of cubes and pictures and all kinds of
nonsense invented by the Germans, but the teacher in this school should
experiment on just such peasant children as the other schools consist
of, in order to determine the simplest methods which may be adopted by
the majority of the teachers, sextons, and soldiers, who form the bulk
of all the schools. Since with the arrangement which I propose there
will certainly be formed large complete schools in the larger centres
(as I think, in the proportion of one to twenty of all the other
schools), and in these large schools the teachers will be of a grade of
education equal to that of the seminarists who have finished a course in
a theological school, the head teacher will visit all these larger
schools, bring together these teachers on Sundays, point out to them the
defects, propose new methods, give counsel and books for their own
education, and invite them to his school on Sundays. The library of the
head teacher ought to consist of several copies of the Bible, of
Church-Slavic and Russian grammars, arithmetic, and algebra. The head
teacher, whenever he has time, will visit also the small schools and
invite their teachers to come to see him; but the duty of watching the
minor teachers is imposed on the older teachers, who just in the same
way visit their district and invite those teachers to come to see them
on Sundays and on week-days. The County Council either pays the teachers
for travelling, or, in adding its portion to what the Communes levy,
makes it a condition that the Communes furnish transportation. The
meetings of the teachers and the visits in similar or better schools are
one of the chief conditions for the successful conduct of the business
of education, and so the County Council ought to direct its main
attention to the organization of these meetings, and not spare any money
for them.

Besides, in the large schools, where there will be more than fifty
pupils, there ought to be chosen, instead of the assistants which they
now have, such of the pupils, of either sex, as show marked ability for
a teacher's calling, and they should be made assistants, two or three in
each school. These assistants should receive a salary of fifty kopeks to
one rouble per month, and the teacher should work with them separately
in the evenings, so that they may not fall behind the others. These
assistants, chosen from among the best, are to form the future teachers,
to take the place of the lowest in the minor schools.