"Shall I go up to him, or not? If I go up, something bad may happen. Who
knows what kind of a man he is? He did not get there for anything good.
If I go up, he will spring at me and choke me, and I shall not get away
from him; and if he does not choke me, I may have trouble with him all
the same. What can I do with him, since he is naked? Certainly I cannot
take off the last from me and give it to him! May God save me!"

And the shoemaker increased his steps. He was already a distance away
from the chapel, when his conscience began to smite him.

And the shoemaker stopped on the road.

"What are you doing, Semén?" he said to himself. "A man is dying in
misery, and you go past him and lose your courage. Have you suddenly
grown so rich? Are you afraid that they will rob you of your wealth? Oh,
Semén, it is not right!"

Semén turned back, and went up to the man.

II.

Semén walked over to the man, and looked at him; and saw that it was a
young man, in the prime of his strength, with no bruises on his body,
but evidently frozen and frightened: he was leaning back and did not
look at Semén, as though he were weakened and could not raise his eyes.
Semén went up close to him, and the man suddenly seemed to wake up. He
turned his head, opened his eyes, and looked at Semén. And this one
glance made Semén think well of the man. He threw down the felt boots,
ungirt himself, put his belt on the boots, and took off his caftan.

"What is the use of talking?" he said. "Put it on! Come now!"

Semén took the man by his elbows and began to raise him. The man got up.
And Semén saw that his body was soft and clean, his hands and feet not
calloused, and his face gentle. Semén threw his caftan over the man's
shoulders. He could not find his way into the sleeves. So Semén put them
in, pulled the caftan on him, wrapped him in it, and girded it with the
belt.

Semén took off his torn cap, intending to put it on the naked man, but
his head grew cold, and so he thought: "My whole head is bald, while he
has long, curly hair." He put it on again. "I had better put the boots
on him."

He seated himself and put the felt boots on him.

The shoemaker addressed him and said:

"That's the way, my friend! Now move about and get warmed up. This
business will be looked into without us. Can you walk?"

The man stood, looking meekly at Semén, but could not say a word.

"Why don't you speak? You can't stay here through the winter. We must
make for a living place. Here, take my stick, lean on it, if you are
weak. Tramp along!"