And the man went. And he walked lightly, and did not fall behind.

As they were walking along, Semén said to him:

"Who are you, please?"

"I am a stranger."

"I know all the people here about. How did you get near that chapel?"

"I cannot tell."

"Have people insulted you?"

"No one has. God has punished me."

"Of course, God does everything, but still you must be making for some
place. Whither are you bound?"

"It makes no difference to me."

Semén was surprised. He did not resemble an evil-doer, and was gentle of
speech, and yet did not say anything about himself. And Semén thought
that all kinds of things happen, and so he said to the man:

"Well, come to my house and warm yourself a little."

Semén walked up to the farm, and the stranger did not fall behind, but
walked beside him. A wind rose and blew into Semén's shirt, and his
intoxication went away, and he began to feel cold. He walked along,
sniffling, and wrapping himself in his wife's jacket, and he thought:

"There is your fur coat: I went to get myself a fur coat, and I am
coming back without a caftan, and am even bringing a naked man with me.
Matréna will not praise me for it!"

And as Semén thought of Matréna, he felt sorry; and as he looked at the
stranger and recalled how he had looked at him at the chapel, his blood
began to play in his heart.

III.

Semén's wife got things done early. She chopped the wood, brought the
water, fed the children, herself took a bite of something, and fell to
musing. She was thinking about when to set the bread, whether to-day or
to-morrow. There was a big slice of it left.

"If Semén has his dinner there," she thought, "and does not eat much for
supper, the bread will last until to-morrow."

Matréna turned the slice around and a second time, and thought:

"I will not set any bread to-day. I have enough meal for just one
setting. We shall somehow hold out until Friday."

Matréna put the bread away, and seated herself at the table to put a
patch in her husband's shirt. She was sewing and thinking of how he
would buy a sheepskin for a fur coat.

"If only the furrier does not cheat him, for my man is too simple for
anything. He himself will not cheat a soul, but a little child can
deceive him. Eight roubles is no small sum. One can pickup a good fur
coat for it. It will not be tanned, still it will be a fur coat. How we
suffered last winter without a fur coat! We could not get down to the
river, or anywhere. And there he has gone out, putting everything on
him, and I have nothing to dress in. He went away early; it is time for
him to be back. If only my dear one has not gone on a spree!"