Just as Matréna was thinking this, the steps creaked on the porch, and
somebody entered. Matréna stuck the needle in the cloth, and went out
into the vestibule. She saw two coming in: Semén, and with him a man
without a cap and in felt boots.

Matréna at once smelt the liquor in her husband's breath. "Well," she
thought, "so it is: he has been on a spree." And when she saw that he
was without his caftan, in nothing but the jacket, and that he was not
bringing anything, but only keeping silent and crouching, something
broke in Matréna's heart. "He has spent all the money in drinks," she
thought, "and has been on a spree with some tramp, and has even brought
him along."

Matréna let them pass into the hut, and then stepped in herself. She saw
the lean young man, and he had on him their caftan. No shirt was to be
seen under the caftan, and he had no hat on his head. When he entered,
he stood still, and did not stir, and did not raise his eyes. And
Matréna thought: "He is not a good man,--he is afraid."

Matréna scowled and went to the oven, waiting to see what would happen.

Semén took off his cap and sat down on the bench like a good man.

"Well, Matréna, will you let us have something for supper, will you?" he
said.

Matréna growled something under her breath. She stood at the oven, and
did not stir: she looked now at the one, and now at the other, and shook
her head. Semén saw that his wife was not in a good humour, but there
was nothing to be done, and he acted as though he did not see it. He
took the stranger by the arm:

"Sit down, my friend," he said, "we shall have our supper."

The stranger sat down on the bench.

"Well, have you not cooked anything?"

That simply roiled Matréna.

"I have cooked, but not for you. You seem to have drunk away your
senses, I see. You went to get a fur coat, and come back without your
caftan, and have even brought some kind of a naked tramp with you. I
have no supper for you drunkards."

"Stop, Matréna! What is the use of wagging your tongue without any
sense? First ask what kind of a man it is--"

"Tell me what you did with the money."

Semén stuck his hand into the caftan, took out the bill, and opened it
before her.

"Here is the money. Trifónov has not paid me,--he promised to give it to
me to-morrow."

That enraged Matréna even more: he had bought no fur coat, and the only
caftan they had he had put on a naked fellow, and had even brought him
along.

She grabbed the bill from the table, and ran to put it away, and said:

"I have no supper. One cannot feed all the drunkards."

"Oh, Matréna, hold your tongue. First hear what I have to say--"