"Much sense shall I hear from a drunken fool. With good reason did I
object to marrying you, a drunkard. My mother gave me some linen, and
you spent it on drinks; you went to buy a fur coat, and spent that,
too."

Semén wanted to explain to his wife that he had spent twenty kopeks
only, and wanted to tell her that he had found the man; but Matréna
began to break in with anything she could think of, and to speak two
words at once. Even what had happened ten years before, she brought up
to him now.

Matréna talked and talked, and jumped at Semén, and grabbed him by the
sleeve.

"Give me my jacket. That is all I have left, and you have taken it from
me and put it on yourself. Give it to me, you freckled dog,--may the
apoplexy strike you!"

Semén began to take off the bodice; as he turned back his arm, his wife
gave the bodice a jerk, and it ripped at the seam. Matréna grabbed the
jacket, threw it over her head, and made for the door. She wanted to go
out, but stopped: her heart was doubled, for she wanted to have her
revenge, and also to find out what kind of a man he was.

IV.

Matréna stopped and said:

"If he were a good man, he would not be naked; but, as it is, he has not
even a shirt on him. If he meant anything good, you would tell me where
you found that dandy."

"I am telling you: as I was walking along, I saw him sitting at the
chapel, without any clothes, and almost frozen. It is not summer, and he
was all naked. God sent me to him, or he would have perished. Well, what
had I to do? All kinds of things happen! I picked him up and dressed
him, and brought him here. Calm yourself! It is a sin, Matréna. We shall
all die."

Matréna wanted to go on scolding, but she looked at the stranger and
kept silence. The stranger sat without moving, just as he had seated
himself on the edge of the bench. His hands were folded on his knees,
his head drooped on his breast, his eyes were not opened, and he frowned
as though something were choking him. Matréna grew silent. And Semén
said:

"Matréna, have you no God?"

When Matréna heard these words, she glanced at the stranger, and
suddenly her heart became softened. She went away from the door, walked
over to the oven corner, and got the supper ready. She placed a bowl on
the table, filled it with kvas, and put down the last slice of bread.
She handed them a knife and spoons.

"Eat, if you please," she said.

Semén touched the stranger.

"Creep through here, good fellow!" he said.