Semén cut up the bread and crumbled it into the kvas, and they began to
eat. And Matréna sat down at the corner of the table, and leaned on her
arm, and kept looking at the stranger.

And Matréna pitied the stranger, and took a liking for him. And suddenly
the stranger grew merry, stopped frowning, raised his eyes on Matréna,
and smiled.

They got through with their supper. The woman cleared the table, and
began to ask the stranger:

"Who are you?"

"I am a stranger."

"How did you get on the road?"

"I cannot tell."

"Has somebody robbed you?"

"God has punished me."

"And you were lying there naked?"

"Yes, I was lying naked, and freezing. Semén saw me, took pity on me,
pulled off his caftan, put it on me, and told me to come here. And you
have given me to eat and to drink, and have pitied me. The Lord will
save you!"

Matréna got up, took from the window Semén's old shirt, the same that
she had been patching, and gave it to the stranger; and she found a pair
of trousers, and gave them to him.

"Here, take it! I see that you have no shirt. Put it on, and lie down
wherever it pleases you,--on the hanging bed or on the oven."

The stranger took off the caftan, put on the shirt, and lay down on the
hanging bed. Matréna put out the light, took the caftan, and climbed to
where her husband was.

Matréna covered herself with the corner of the caftan, and she lay and
could not sleep: the stranger would not leave her mind.

As she thought how he had eaten the last slice of bread and how there
would be no bread for the morrow; as she thought how she had given him a
shirt and a pair of trousers, she felt pretty bad; but when she thought
of how he smiled, her heart was gladdened.

Matréna could not sleep for a long time, and she heard that Semén, too,
was not sleeping; he kept pulling the caftan on himself.

"Semén!"

"What is it?"

"We have eaten up the last bread, and I have not set any. I do not know
what to do for to-morrow. Maybe I had better ask Gossip Malánya for
some."

"If we are alive we shall find something to eat."

The woman lay awhile and kept silence.

"He must be a good man. But why does he not tell about himself?"

"I suppose he cannot."

"Semén!"

"What?"

"We give, but why does nobody give to us?"

Semén did not know what to say. He only said, "Stop talking!" and turned
over, and fell asleep.

V.

In the morning Semén awoke. The children were asleep; his wife had gone
to the neighbours to borrow some bread. The stranger of last night, in
the old trousers and shirt, was alone, sitting on the bench and looking
upward. And his face was brighter than on the day before.

And Semén said: