"Well, dear man, the belly begs for bread, and the naked body for
clothes. We must earn our living. Can you work?"

"I do not know anything."

Semén wondered at him, and said:

"If only you are willing: people can learn anything."

"People work, and I, too, will work."

"What is your name?"

"Michael."

"Well, Mikháyla, you do not want to talk about yourself,--that is your
business; but a man has to live. If you work as I order you, I will feed
you."

"God save you, and I will learn. Show me what to do!"

Semén took the flax, put it on his fingers and began to make an end.

"It is not a hard thing to do, you see."

Mikháyla watched him, himself put the flax on his fingers, and made a
thread end, as Semén had taught him.

Semén showed him how to wax it. Mikháyla again learned the way at once.
The master showed him how to weld the bristle, and how to whet, and
Mikháyla learned it all at once.

No matter what work Semén showed to him, he grasped it at once, and on
the third day he began to sew as though he had done nothing else in all
his life. He worked without unbending himself, ate little, between the
periods of work kept silence, and all the time looked toward the sky. He
did not go into the street, spoke no superfluous word, and did not jest
or laugh.

Only once was he seen to smile, and that was the first evening, when the
woman gave him a supper.

VI.

Day was added to day, week to week, and the circle of a year went by.
Mikháyla was living as before with Semén, and working. And the report
spread about Semén's workman that nobody sewed a boot so neatly and so
strongly as he. And people from all the surrounding country began to
come to Semén for boots, and Semén's income began to grow.

One time, in the winter, Semén was sitting with Mikháyla and working,
when a tróyka with bells stopped at the door. They looked through the
window: the carriage had stopped opposite the hut, and a fine lad jumped
down from the box and opened the carriage door. Out of the carriage
stepped a gentleman in a fur coat. He came out of the carriage, walked
toward Semén's house, and went on the porch. Up jumped Matréna and
opened the door wide. The gentleman bent his head and entered the hut;
he straightened himself up, almost struck the ceiling with his head, and
took up a whole corner.

Semén got up, bowed to the gentleman, and wondered what he wanted. He
had not seen such men. Semén himself was spare-ribbed, and Mikháyla was
lean, and Matréna was as dry as a chip, while this one was like a man
from another world: his face was red and blood-filled, his neck like a
bull's, and altogether he looked as though cast in iron.