"I knew before that God gave life to men and that He wanted them to
live; now I understand even something else.

"I understand that God does not want men to live apart, and so He has
not revealed to them what each needs for himself, but wants them to live
together, and so He has revealed to them what they all need for
themselves and for all.

"I understand now that it only seems to men that they live by the care
for themselves, and that they live only by love. He who has love, is in
God, and God is in him, because God is love."

And the angel began to sing the praise of God, and from his voice the
whole hut shook. And the ceiling expanded, and a fiery column rose from
earth to heaven. And Semén and his wife and children fell to the ground.
And the wings were unfolded on the angel's shoulders, and he rose to
heaven.

And when Semén awoke, the hut was as before, and in the room were only
his family.

THE THREE HERMITS

1884

THE THREE HERMITS

But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for
     they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not
     ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye
     have need of, before ye ask him. (Matt. vi. 7-8.)

A bishop was sailing in a ship from Arkhángelsk to Solóvki. On this ship
there were pilgrims on their way to visit the saints. The wind was
favourable, the weather clear, and the vessel did not roll. Of the
pilgrims some were lying down, some eating, some sitting in groups, and
some talking with each other. The bishop, too, came out on deck, and
began to walk up and down on the bridge. He walked up to the prow and
saw there several men sitting together. A peasant was pointing to
something in the sea and talking, while the people listened to him. The
bishop stopped to see what the peasant was pointing at: he could see
nothing except that the sun was glistening on the water. The bishop came
nearer and began to listen. When the peasant saw the bishop, he took off
his cap and grew silent. And the people, too, when they saw the bishop,
took off their caps and saluted him.

"Do not trouble yourselves, friends," said the bishop. "I have just come
to hear what you, good man, are telling about."

"The fisherman is telling us about the hermits," said a merchant, who
was a little bolder than the rest.

"What about those hermits?" asked the bishop. He walked over to the
gunwale and sat down on a box. "Tell me, too, and I will listen. What
were you pointing at?"

"There is an island glinting there," said the peasant, pointing forward
and to the right. "On that island the hermits are living and saving
their souls."

"Where is that island?" asked the bishop.