"Please to follow my hand! There is a small cloud; below it and a little
to the left of it the island appears like a streak."

The bishop looked and looked, but only the water was rippling in the
sun, and he could not make out anything with his unaccustomed eye.

"I do not see it," he said. "What kind of hermits are living on that
island?"

"God's people," replied the peasant. "I had heard about them for a long
time, and never had any chance to see them; but two summers ago I saw
them myself."

The fisherman went on to tell how he went out to catch fish and was
driven to that island, and did not know where he was. In the morning he
walked out and came to an earth hut, and there he saw one hermit, and
then two more came out. They fed him and dried him and helped him to
mend his boat.

"What kind of people are they?" asked the bishop.

"One is small and stooping, a very old man, in an old cassock; he must
be more than a hundred years old, the gray of his beard is turning
green, and he smiles all the time, and is as bright as an angel of
heaven. The second is taller; he, too, is old, and wears a ragged
caftan; his broad gray beard is streaked yellow, and he is a powerful
man: he turned my boat around as though it were a vat, before I had a
chance to help him; he also is a cheerful man. The third man is tall;
his beard falls down to his knees and is as white as snow; he is a
gloomy man, and his brows hang over his eyes; he is all naked, and
girded only with a piece of matting."

"What did they tell you?" asked the bishop.

"They did everything mostly in silence, and spoke little to one another.
When one looked up, the others understood him. I asked the tall man how
long they had been living there. He frowned and muttered something, as
though he were angry, but the little hermit took his arm and smiled, and
the tall one grew silent. All the little hermit said was: 'Have mercy on
us,' and smiled."

While the peasant spoke, the ship came nearer to the island.

"Now you can see it plainly," said the merchant. "Please to look there,
your Reverence!" he said, pointing to the island.

The bishop looked up and really saw a black strip, which was the island.
The bishop looked at it for quite awhile, then he went away from the
prow to the stern, and walked over to the helmsman.

"What island is this that we see there?"

"That is a nameless island. There are so many of them here."

"Is it true what they say, that some hermits are saving their souls
there?"