"They say so, your Reverence, but I do not know whether it is so.
Fishermen say that they have seen them. But they frequently speak to no
purpose."

"I should like to land on that island and see the hermits," said the
bishop. "How can I do it?"

"The ship cannot land there," said the helmsman. "You can get there by a
boat, but you must ask the captain."

The captain was called out.

"I should like to see those hermits," said the bishop. "Can I not be
taken there?"

The captain began to dissuade him.

"It can be done, but it will take much time, and, I take the liberty of
informing your Reverence, it is not worth while to look at them. I have
heard people say that they were foolish old men: they understand nothing
and cannot speak, just like the fishes of the sea."

"I wish it," said the bishop. "I will pay you for the trouble, so take
me there."

It could not be helped. The sailors shifted the sails and the helmsman
turned the ship, and they sailed toward the island. A chair was brought
out for the bishop and put at the prow. He sat down and looked. All the
people gathered at the prow, and all kept looking at the island. Those
who had sharper eyes saw the rocks on the island, and they pointed to
the earth hut. And one man could make out the three hermits. The captain
brought out his spy-glass and looked through it and gave it to the
bishop.

"That's so," he said, "there, on the shore, a little to the right from
that big rock, stand three men."

The bishop looked through the glass and turned it to the right spot.
There were three men there: one tall, a second smaller, and a third a
very small man. They were standing on the shore and holding each other's
hands.

The captain walked over to the bishop, and said:

"Here, your Reverence, the ship has to stop. If you wish to go there by
all means, you will please go from here in a boat, and we will wait here
at anchor."

The hawsers were let out, the anchor dropped, the sails furled, and the
vessel jerked and shook. A boat was lowered, the oarsmen jumped into it,
and the bishop went down a ladder. He sat down on a bench in the boat,
and the oarsmen pulled at the oars and rowed toward the island. They
came near to the shore and could see clearly three men standing there: a
tall man, all naked, with a mat about his loins; the next in size, in a
tattered caftan; and the stooping old man, in an old cassock. There they
stood holding each other's hands.

The oarsmen rowed up to the shore and caught their hook in it. The
bishop stepped ashore.

The old men bowed to him. He blessed them, and they bowed lower still.
Then the bishop began to talk to them: