"I have heard," he said, "that you are here, hermits of God, saving your
souls and praying to Christ our God for men. I, an unworthy servant of
Christ, have been called here by the mercy of God to tend His flock, and
so I wanted to see you, the servants of God, and to give you some
instruction, if I can do so."

The hermits kept silence, and smiled, and looked at one another.

"Tell me, how do you save yourselves and serve God?" asked the bishop.

The middle-sized hermit heaved a sigh and looked at the older, the
stooping hermit. And the stooping hermit smiled, and said:

"We do not know, O servant of God, how to serve God. We only support
ourselves."

"How, then, do you pray to God?"

And the stooping hermit said:

"We pray as follows: There are three of you and three of us,--have mercy
on us!"

And the moment the stooping hermit had said that, all three of them
raised their eyes to heaven, and all three said:

"There are three of you and three of us,--have mercy on us!"

The bishop smiled, and said:

"You have heard that about the Holy Trinity, but you do not pray the
proper way. I like you, hermits of God, and I see that you want to
please God, but do not know how to serve Him. I will teach you, not
according to my way, but from the Gospel will I teach you as God has
commanded all men to pray to Him."

And the bishop began to explain to the hermits how God had revealed
Himself to men: he explained to them about God the Father, and God the
Son, and God the Holy Ghost, and said:

"God the Son came down upon earth to save men and taught them to pray as
follows. Listen, and repeat after me."

And the bishop began to say, "Our Father." And one of the hermits
repeated, "Our Father," and the second repeated, "Our Father," and the
third repeated, "Our Father."

"Which art in heaven." The hermit repeated, "Which art in heaven." But
the middle hermit got mixed in his words, and did not say it right; and
the tall, naked hermit did not say it right: his moustache was all over
his mouth, and he could not speak clearly; and the stooping, toothless
hermit, too, lisped it indistinctly.

The bishop repeated it a second time, and the hermits repeated it after
him. And the bishop sat down on a stone, and the hermits stood around
him and looked into his mouth and repeated after him so long as he
spoke. And the bishop worked with them all day; he repeated one word
ten, and twenty, and a hundred times, and the hermits repeated after
him. They blundered, and he corrected them, and made them repeat from
the beginning.