The bishop did not leave the hermits until he taught them the whole
Lord's prayer. They said it with him and by themselves. The middle-sized
hermit was the first to learn it, and he repeated it all by himself. The
bishop made him say it over and over again, and both the others said the
prayer, too.

It was beginning to grow dark, and the moon rose from the sea, when the
bishop got up to go back to the ship. The bishop bade the hermits
good-bye, and they bowed to the ground before him. He raised each of
them, and kissed them, and told them to pray as he had taught them, and
entered the boat, and was rowed back to the ship.

And as the boat was rowed toward the ship, the bishop heard the hermits
loudly repeating the Lord's prayer in three voices. The boat came nearer
to the ship, and the voices of the hermits could no longer be heard, but
in the moonlight they could be seen standing on the shore, in the spot
where they had been left: the smallest of them was in the middle, the
tallest on the right, and the middle-sized man on the left. The bishop
reached the ship and climbed up to the deck. The anchors were weighed,
the sails unfurled, and the wind blew and drove the ship, and on they
sailed. The bishop went to the prow and sat down there and looked at the
island. At first the hermits could be seen, then they disappeared from
view, and only the island could be seen; then the island, too,
disappeared, and only the sea glittered in the moonlight.

The pilgrims lay down to sleep, and everything grew quiet on the deck.
But the bishop did not feel like sleeping. He sat by himself at the prow
and looked out to sea to where the island had disappeared, and thought
of the good hermits. He thought of how glad they had been to learn the
prayer, and thanked God for having taken him there to help the God's
people,--to teach them the word of God.

The bishop was sitting and thinking and looking out to sea to where the
island had disappeared. There was something unsteady in his eyes: now a
light quivered in one place on the waves, and now in another. Suddenly
he saw something white and shining in the moonlight,--either a bird, a
gull, or a white sail on a boat. The bishop watched it closely.

"A sailboat is following after us," he thought. "It will soon overtake
us. It was far, far away, but now it is very near. It is evidently not a
boat, for there seems to be no sail. Still it is flying behind us and
coming up close to us."