The bishop could not make out what it was: a boat, no, it was not a
boat; a bird, no, not a bird; a fish, no, not a fish! It was like a man,
but too large for that, and then, how was a man to be in the middle of
the ocean? The bishop got up and walked over to the helmsman.

"See there, what is it?"

"What is it, my friend? What is it?" asked the bishop, but he saw
himself that those were the hermits running over the sea. Their beards
shone white, and, as though the ship were standing still, they came up
to it.

The helmsman looked around and was frightened. He dropped the helm, and
called out in a loud voice:

"O Lord! The hermits are running after us on the sea as though it were
dry land!"

The people heard him, and rushed to the helm. All saw the hermits
running and holding each other's hands. Those at the ends waved their
hands, asking the ship to be stopped. All three were running over the
water as though it were dry land, without moving their feet.

Before the ship could be stopped, the hermits came abreast with the
ship. They came up to the gunwale, raised their heads, and spoke in one
voice:

"O servant of God, we have forgotten your lesson. So long as we repeated
it, we remembered it; but when we stopped for an hour, one word leaped
out, and then the rest scattered. We do not remember a thing, so teach
us again."

The bishop made the sign of the cross, bent down to the hermits, and
said:

"Even your prayer, hermits of God, reaches the Lord. It is not for me to
teach you. Pray for us sinful men!"

And the bishop made a low obeisance to the hermits. And the hermits
stopped, turned around, and walked back over the sea. And up to morning
a light could be seen on the side where the hermits had departed.

NEGLECT THE FIRE

And You Cannot Put It Out

1885

NEGLECT THE FIRE

And You Cannot Put It Out

Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother
     sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?

Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but,
     Until seventy times seven.

Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king,
     which would take account of his servants.

And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which
     owed him ten thousand talents.

But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be
     sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment
     to be made.

The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord,
     have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed
     him, and forgave him the debt.