But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants,
     which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on him, and took
     him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.

And his fellowservant fell down at his feet, and besought him,
     saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he should
     pay the debt.

So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry,
     and came and told unto their lord all that was done.

Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou
     wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou
     desiredst me:

Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant,
     even as I had pity on thee?

And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till
     he should pay all that was due unto him.

So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from
     your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses.
     (Matt. xviii. 21-35.)

There lived in a village a peasant, by the name of Iván Shcherbakóv. He
lived well; he was himself in full strength, the first worker in the
village, and he had three sons,--all of them on their legs: one was
married, the second about to marry, and the third a grown-up lad who
drove horses and was beginning to plough. Iván's wife was a clever woman
and a good housekeeper, and his daughter-in-law turned out to be a quiet
person and a good worker. There was no reason why Iván should not have
led a good life with his family. The only idle mouth on the farm was his
old, ailing father (he had been lying on the oven for seven years, sick
with the asthma).

Iván had plenty of everything, three horses and a colt, a cow and a
yearling calf, and fifteen sheep. The women made the shoes and the
clothes for the men and worked in the field; the men worked on their
farms.

They had enough grain until the next crop. From the oats they paid their
taxes and met all their obligations. An easy life, indeed, might Iván
have led with his children. But next door to him he had a neighbour,
Gavrílo the Lame, Gordyéy Ivánov's son. And there was an enmity between
him and Iván.