The young woman was offended. She said a word too much, the neighbour
answered with two, and the women began to scold. Iván's wife was
carrying water, and she, too, took a hand in it. Gavrílo's wife jumped
out, and began to rebuke her neighbour. She reminded her of things that
had happened, and mentioned things that had not happened at all. And the
tongue-lashing began. All yelled together, trying to say two words at
the same time. And they used bad words.

"You are such and such a one; you are a thief, a sneak; you are simply
starving your father-in-law; you are a tramp."

"And you are a beggar: you have torn my sieve; and you have our
shoulder-yoke. Give me back the yoke!"

They grabbed the yoke, spilled the water, tore off their kerchiefs, and
began to fight. Gavrílo drove up from the field, and he took his wife's
part. Iván jumped out with his son, and they all fell in a heap. Iván
was a sturdy peasant, and he scattered them all. He yanked out a piece
of Gavrílo's beard. People ran up to them, and they were with difficulty
pulled apart.

That's the way it began.

Gavrílo wrapped the piece of his beard in a petition and went to the
township court to enter a complaint.

"I did not raise a beard for freckled Iván to pull it out."

In the meantime his wife bragged to the neighbours that they would now
get Iván sentenced and would have him sent to Siberia, and the feud
began.

The old man on the oven tried to persuade them to stop the first day
they started to quarrel, but the young people paid no attention to him.
He said to them:

"Children, you are doing a foolish thing, and for a foolish thing have
you started a feud. Think of it,--the whole affair began from an egg.
The children picked up the egg,--well, God be with them! There is no
profit in one egg. With God's aid there will be enough for everybody.
Well, you have said a bad word, so correct it, show her how to use
better words! Well, you have had a fight,--you are sinful people. That,
too, happens. Well, go and make peace, and let there be an end to it! If
you keep it up, it will only be worse."

The young people did not obey the old man; they thought that he was not
using sense, but just babbling in old man's fashion.

Iván did not give in to his neighbour.

"I did not pull his beard," he said. "He jerked it out himself; but his
son has yanked off my shirt-button and has torn my whole shirt. Here it
is."

And Iván, too, took the matter to court. The case was heard before a
justice of the peace, and in the township court. While they were suing
each other, Gavrílo lost a coupling-pin out of his cart. The women in
Gavrílo's house accused Iván's son of having taken it.