Again Iván was not successful. The magistrate did not accept the
petition: they examined the woman, but she was up and there were no
marks upon her. Iván went to the justice of the peace; but the justice
sent the case to the township court. Iván bestirred himself in the
township office, filled the elder and the scribe with half a bucket of
sweet liquor, and got them to sentence Gavrílo to having his back
flogged. The sentence was read to Gavrílo in the court.

The scribe read:

"The court has decreed that the peasant Gavrílo Gordyéy receive twenty
blows with rods in the township office."

Iván listened to the decree and looked at Gavrílo, wondering what he
would do. Gavrílo, too, heard the decree, and he became as pale as a
sheet, and turned away and walked out into the vestibule. Iván followed
him out and wanted to go to his horse, when he heard Gavrílo say:

"Very well, he will beat my back, and it will burn, but something of his
may burn worse than that."

When Iván heard these words, he returned to the judges.

"Righteous judges! He threatens to set fire to my house. Listen, he said
it in the presence of witnesses."

Gavrílo was called in.

"Is it true that you said so?"

"I said nothing. Flog me, if you please. Evidently I must suffer for my
truth, while he may do anything he wishes."

Gavrílo wanted to say something more, but his lips and cheeks trembled.
He turned away toward the wall. Even the judges were frightened as they
looked at him.

"It would not be surprising," they thought, "if he actually did some
harm to his neighbour or to himself."

And an old judge said to them:

"Listen, friends! You had better make peace with each other. Did you do
right, brother Gavrílo, to strike a pregnant woman? Luckily God was
merciful to you, but think what crime you might have committed! Is that
good? Confess your guilt and beg his pardon! And he will pardon you.
Then we shall change the decree."

The scribe heard that, and said:

"That is impossible, because on the basis of Article 117 there has taken
place no reconciliation, but the decree of the court has been handed
down, and the decree has to be executed."

But the judge paid no attention to the scribe.

"Stop currycombing your tongue. The first article, my friend, is to
remember God, and God has commanded me to make peace."

And the judge began once more to talk to the peasants, but he could not
persuade them. Gavrílo would not listen to him.

"I am fifty years old less one," he said, "and I have a married son. I
have not been beaten in all my life, and now freckled Iván has brought
me to being beaten with rods, and am I to beg his forgiveness? Well, he
will--Iván will remember me!"

Gavrílo's voice trembled again. He could not talk. He turned around and
went out.