The old man wanted to say something else, but did not finish, for the
women entered the room and began to prattle like magpies. The news had
already reached them about how Gavrílo had been sentenced to be flogged,
and how he had threatened to set fire to the house. They had found out
everything, and had had time in the pasture to exchange words with the
women of Gavrílo's house. They said that Gavrílo's daughter-in-law had
threatened them with the examining magistrate. The magistrate, they
said, was receiving gifts from Gavrílo. He would now upset the whole
case, and the teacher had already written another petition to the Tsar
about Iván, and that petition mentioned all the affairs, about the
coupling-pin, and about the garden,--and half of the estate would go
back to him. Iván listened to their talk, and his heart was chilled
again, and he changed his mind about making peace with Gavrílo.

In a farmer's yard there is always much to do. Iván did not stop to talk
with the women, but got up and went out of the house, and walked over to
the threshing-floor and the shed. Before he fixed everything and started
back again, the sun went down, and the boys returned from the field.
They had been ploughing up the field for the winter crop. Iván met them,
and asked them about their work and helped them to put up the horses. He
laid aside the torn collar and was about to put some poles under the
shed, when it grew quite dark. Iván left the poles until the morrow;
instead he threw some fodder down to the cattle, opened the gate, let
Taráska out with the horses into the street, to go to the night pasture,
and again closed the gate and put down the gate board.

"Now to supper and to bed," thought Iván. He took the torn collar and
went into the house. He had entirely forgotten about Gavrílo, and about
what his father had told him. As he took hold of the ring and was about
to enter the vestibule, he heard his neighbour on the other side of the
wicker fence scolding some one in a hoarse voice.

"The devil take him!" Gavrílo was crying to some one. "He ought to be
killed."

These words made all the old anger toward his neighbour burst forth in
Iván. He stood awhile and listened to Gavrílo's scolding. Then Gavrílo
grew quiet, and Iván went into the house.

He entered the room. Fire was burning within. The young woman was
sitting in the corner behind the spinning-wheel; the old woman was
getting supper ready; the eldest son was making laces for the bast
shoes, the second was at the table with a book, and Taráska was getting
ready to go to the night pasture.

In the house everything was good and merry, if it were not for that
curse,--a bad neighbour.