Iván was angry when he entered the room. He knocked the cat down from
the bench and scolded the women because the vat was not in the right
place. Iván felt out of humour. He sat down, frowning, and began to mend
the collar. He could not forget Gavrílo's words, with which he had
threatened him in court, and how he had said about somebody, speaking in
a hoarse voice: "He ought to be killed."

The old woman got Taráska something to eat. When he was through with his
supper, he put on a fur coat and a caftan, girded himself, took a piece
of bread, and went out to the horses. The eldest brother wanted to see
him off, but Iván himself got up and went out on the porch. It was
pitch-dark outside, the sky was clouded, and a wind had risen. Iván
stepped down from the porch, helped his little son to get on a horse,
frightened a colt behind him, and stood looking and listening while
Taráska rode down the village, where he met other children, and until
they all rode out of hearing. Iván stood and stood at the gate, and
could not get Gavrílo's words out of his head, "Something of yours may
burn worse."

"He will not consider himself," thought Iván. "It is dry, and a wind is
blowing. He will enter somewhere from behind, the scoundrel, and will
set the house on fire, and he will go free. If I could catch him, he
would not get away from me."

This thought troubled Iván so much that he did not go back to the porch,
but walked straight into the street and through the gate, around the
corner of the house.

"I will examine the yard,--who knows?"

And Iván walked softly down along the gate. He had just turned around
the corner and looked up the fence, when it seemed to him that something
stirred at the other end, as though it got up and sat down again. Iván
stopped and stood still,--he listened and looked: everything was quiet,
only the wind rustled the leaves in the willow-tree and crackled through
the straw. It was pitch-dark, but his eyes got used to the darkness:
Iván could see the whole corner and the plough and the penthouse. He
stood and looked, but there was no one there.

"It must have only seemed so to me," thought Iván, "but I will,
nevertheless, go and see," and he stole up along the shed. Iván stepped
softly in his bast shoes, so that he did not hear his own steps. He came
to the corner, when, behold, something flashed by near the plough, and
disappeared again. Iván felt as though something hit him in the heart,
and he stopped. As he stopped he could see something flashing up, and he
could see clearly some one in a cap squatting down with his back toward
him, and setting fire to a bunch of straw in his hands. He stood
stock-still.