"Now," he thought, "he will not get away from me. I will catch him on
the spot."

Before Iván had walked two lengths of the fence it grew quite bright,
and no longer in the former place, nor was it a small fire, but the
flame licked up in the straw of the penthouse and was going toward the
roof, and there stood Gavrílo so that the whole of him could be seen.

As a hawk swoops down on a lark, so Iván rushed up against Gavrílo the
Lame.

"I will twist him up," he thought, "and he will not get away from me."

But Gavrílo the Lame evidently heard his steps and ran along the shed
with as much speed as a hare.

"You will not get away," shouted Iván, swooping down on him.

He wanted to grab him by the collar, but Gavrílo got away from him, and
Iván caught him by the skirt of his coat. The skirt tore off, and Iván
fell down.

Iván jumped up.

"Help! Hold him!" and again he ran.

As he was getting up, Gavrílo was already near his yard, but Iván caught
up with him. He was just going to take hold of him, when something
stunned him, as though a stone had come down on his head. Gavrílo had
picked up an oak post near his house and hit Iván with all his might on
the head, when he ran up to him.

Iván staggered, sparks flew from his eyes, then all grew dark, and he
fell down. When he came to his senses, Gavrílo was gone. It was as light
as day, and from his yard came a sound as though an engine were working,
and it roared and crackled there. Iván turned around and saw that his
back shed was all on fire and the side shed was beginning to burn; the
fire, and the smoke, and the burning straw were being carried toward the
house.

"What is this? Friend!" cried Iván. He raised his hands and brought them
down on his calves. "If I could only pull it out from the penthouse, and
put it out! What is this? Friends!" he repeated. He wanted to shout, but
he nearly strangled,--he had no voice. He wanted to run, but his feet
would not move,--they tripped each other up. He tried to walk slowly,
but he staggered, and he nearly strangled. He stood still again and drew
breath, and started to walk. Before he came to the shed and reached the
fire, the side shed was all on fire, and he could not get into the yard.
People came running up, but nothing could be done. The neighbours
dragged their own things out of their houses, and drove the cattle out.
After Iván's house, Gavrílo's caught fire; a wind rose and carried the
fire across the street. Half the village burned down.