"Speak before God: whose sin is it? What have I told you?"

It was only then that Iván came to his senses, and understood
everything. And he snuffled, and said:

"Mine, father." And he knelt before his father, and wept, and said:
"Forgive me, father! I am guilty toward you and toward God."

The old man moved his hands, took the taper in his left hand, and was
moving his right hand toward his brow, to make the sign of the cross,
but he did not get it so far, and he stopped.

"Glory be to thee, O Lord! Glory be to thee, O Lord!" he said, and his
eyes were again turned toward his son.

"Iván! Oh, Iván!"

"What is it, father?"

"What is to be done now?"

Iván was weeping.

"I do not know, father," he said. "How am I to live now, father?"

The old man closed his eyes and lisped something, as though gathering
all his strength, and he once more opened his eyes and said:

"You will get along. With God's aid will you get along." The old man was
silent awhile, and he smiled and said:

"Remember, Iván, you must not tell who started the fire. Cover up
another man's sin! God will forgive two sins."

And the old man took the taper into both hands, folded them over his
heart, heaved a sigh, stretched himself, and died.

*       *       *       *       *

Iván did not tell on Gavrílo, and nobody found out how the fire had been
started.

And Iván's heart was softened toward Gavrílo, and Gavrílo marvelled at
Iván, because he did not tell anybody. At first Gavrílo was afraid of
him, but later he got used to him. The peasants stopped quarrelling, and
so did their families. While they rebuilt their homes, the two families
lived in one house, and when the village was built again, and the
farmhouses were built farther apart, Iván and Gavrílo again were
neighbours, living in the same block.

And Iván and Gavrílo lived neighbourly together, just as their fathers
had lived. Iván Shcherbakóv remembered his father's injunction and God's
command to put out the fire in the beginning. And if a person did him
some harm, he did not try to have his revenge on the man, but to mend
matters; and if a person called him a bad name, he did not try to answer
with worse words still, but to teach him not to speak badly. And thus he
taught, also the women folk and the children. And Iván Shcherbakóv
improved and began to live better than ever.

THE CANDLE

1885

THE CANDLE

Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a
     tooth for a tooth: but I say unto you, That ye resist not evil.
     (Matt. v. 38, 39.)