"Mikhaíl Seménovich, the clerk, has commanded me to get all the peasants
ready for the morrow, to plough the field for the oats." The elder made
the round of the village with the deputies and ordered all to go out on
the morrow to plough, some beyond the river, and some from the highway.
The peasants wept, but did not dare to disobey, and on the morrow went
out with their ploughs and began to plough.

Mikhaíl Seménovich, the clerk, awoke late, and went out to look after
the farm. His home folk--his wife and his widowed daughter (she had come
for the holidays)--were all dressed up. A labourer hitched a cart for
them, and they went to mass, and returned home again. A servant made the
samovár, and when Mikhaíl Seménovich came, they sat down to drink tea.
Mikhaíl Seménovich drank his tea, lighted a pipe, and sent for the
elder.

"Well," he said, "have you sent out the peasants to plough?"

"Yes, Mikhaíl Seménovich."

"Well, did all of them go?"

"All. I placed them myself."

"Of course, you have placed them,--but are they ploughing? Go and see,
and tell them that I will be there in the afternoon, and by that time
they are to plough a desyatína to each two ploughs, and plough it well.
If I find any unploughed strips, I will pay no attention to the
holiday."

"Yes, sir."

The elder started to go out, but Mikhaíl Seménovich called him back. He
called him back, but he hesitated, for he wanted to say something and
did not know how to say it. He hesitated awhile, and then he said:

"Listen to what those robbers are saying about me. Tell me
everything,--who is scolding me, or whatever they may be saying. I know
those robbers: they do not like to work; all they want to do is to lie
on their sides and loaf. To eat and be idle, that is what they like;
they do not consider that if the time of ploughing is missed it will be
too late. So listen to what they have to say, and let me know everything
you may hear! Go, but be sure you tell me everything and keep nothing
from me!"

The elder turned around and left the room. He mounted his horse and rode
into the field to the peasants.

The clerk's wife had heard her husband's talk with the elder, and she
came in and began to implore him. The wife of the clerk was a peaceable
woman, and she had a good heart. Whenever she could, she calmed her
husband and took the peasants' part.

She came to her husband, and began to beg him: "My dear Míshenka, do not
sin, for the Lord's holiday! For Christ's sake, send the peasants home!"

Mikhaíl Seménovich did not accept his wife's words, but only laughed at
her:

"Is it too long a time since the whip danced over you that you have
become so bold, and meddle in what is not your concern?"