The horse was brought up, and the clerk's wife persuaded him to ride
into the field to send the peasants home.

Mikhaíl Seménovich mounted his horse and rode into the field. He drove
through the yard, and a woman opened the gate for him, and he passed
into the village. The moment the people saw the clerk, they hid
themselves from him, one in the yard, another around a corner, a third
in the garden.

The clerk rode through the whole village and reached the outer gate. The
gate was shut, and he could not open it while sitting on his horse. He
called and called for somebody to open the gate, but no one would come.
He got down from his horse, opened the gate, and in the gateway started
to mount again. He put his foot into the stirrup, rose in it, and was on
the point of vaulting over the saddle, when his horse shied at a pig and
backed up toward the picket fence; he was a heavy man and did not get
into his saddle, but fell over, with his belly on picket. There was but
one sharp post in the picket fence, and it was higher than the rest. It
was this post that he struck with his belly. He was ripped open and fell
to the ground.

When the peasants drove home from their work, the horses snorted and
would not go through the gate. The peasants went to look, and saw
Mikhaíl lying on his back. His arms were stretched out, his eyes stood
open, and all his inside had run out and the blood stood in a pool,--the
earth had not sucked it in.

The peasants were frightened. They took their horses in by back roads,
but Mikhyéev alone got down and walked over to the clerk. He saw that he
was dead, so he closed his eyes, hitched his cart, with the aid of his
son put the dead man in the bed of the cart, and took him to the manor.

The master heard about all these things, and to save himself from sin
substituted tenant pay for the manorial labour.

And the peasants saw that the power of God was not in sin, but in
goodness.

THE TWO OLD MEN

1885

THE TWO OLD MEN

Therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well:
     and it was about the sixth hour. There cometh a woman of Samaria to
     draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. (For his
     disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.) Then saith the
     woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest
     drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no
     dealings with the Samaritans. Jesus answered and said unto her, If
     thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee,
     Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, for the Father
     seeketh such to worship him. (John iv. 19-23.)

I.