"We cannot help receiving pilgrims," she said. "We received life from a
pilgrim. We lived forgetting God, and God punished us in such a way that
all of us were waiting for death. Last summer we came to such a point
that we were all lying down sick and starved. We should certainly have
died, but God sent us an old man like you. He stepped in during the
daytime to get a drink; when he saw us, he took pity on us and remained
at our house. He gave us to eat and to drink, and put us on our feet
again. He cleared our land from debt, and bought a horse and cart and
left it with us."

The old woman entered the room, and interrupted her speech:

"We do not know," she said, "whether he was a man or an angel of the
Lord. He was good to us all, and pitied us, and then went away without
giving his name, so that we do not know for whom to pray to God. I see
it as though it happened just now: I was lying down and waiting for
death to come; I looked up and saw a man come in,--just a simple,
bald-headed man,--and ask for a drink. I, sinful woman, thought that he
was a tramp, but see what he did! When he saw us he put down his wallet,
right in this spot, and opened it."

The girl broke in.

"No, granny," she said, "first he put his wallet in the middle of the
room, and only later did he put it on the bench."

And they began to dispute and to recall his words and deeds: where he
had sat down, and where he had slept, and what he had done, and what he
had said to each.

Toward evening the master of the house came home on a horse, and he,
too, began to tell about Eliséy, and how he had stayed at their house.

"If he had not come to us," he said, "we should all of us have died in
sin. We were dying in despair, and we murmured against God and men. But
he put us on our feet, and through him we found out God, and began to
believe in good people. May Christ save him! Before that we lived like
beasts, and he has made men of us."

They gave Efím to eat and to drink, and gave him a place to sleep, and
themselves went to bed.

As Efím lay down, he could not sleep, and Eliséy did not leave his mind,
but he thought of how he had seen him three times in Jerusalem in the
foremost place.

"So this is the way he got ahead of me," he thought. "My work may be
accepted or not, but his the Lord has accepted."

In the morning Efím bade the people good-bye: they filled his wallet
with cakes and went to work, while Efím started out on the road.

XII.