They paid no attention to the old woman, and almost knocked her off her
feet. She would never have stopped them, if it had not been for Akúlka
and Malásha. While the women exchanged words, Akúlka wiped off her
bodice, and went back to the puddle in the lane. She picked up a pebble
and began to scratch the ground so as to let the water off into the
street. While she was scratching, Malásha came up and began to help her:
she picked up a chip and widened the rill. The peasants had begun to
fight, just as the water went down the rill toward the place where the
old woman was trying to separate the men. The girls ran, one from one
side of the rill, the other from the other side.

"Look out, Malásha, look out!" shouted Akúlka.

Malásha wanted to say something herself, but could not speak for
laughter.

The girls were running and laughing at a chip which was bobbing up and
down the rill. They ran straight into the crowd of the peasants. The old
woman saw them and said to the peasants:

"Shame on you before God, men! You have started fighting on account of
these two girls, and they have long ago forgotten it: the dear children
have been playing nicely together. They are wiser than you."

The men looked at the girls, and they felt ashamed. Then they laughed at
themselves, and scattered to their farms.

"Except ye become as little children, ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven."

THE TWO BROTHERS AND THE GOLD

In ancient times there lived not far from Jerusalem two brothers, the
elder named Athanasius, and the younger John. They lived in a mountain,
not far from the city, and supported themselves on what people offered
them. The brothers passed all their days at work. They worked not for
themselves, but for the poor. Wherever were those who were oppressed by
labour, or sick people, or orphans, or widows, thither the brothers
went, and there they worked, and received no pay. Thus the two brothers
passed the whole week away from each other, and met only on Saturday
evening in their abode. On Sunday alone did they stay at home, and then
they prayed and talked with each other. And an angel of the Lord came
down to them and blessed them. On Monday they separated each in his own
direction. Thus they lived for many years, and each week the angel of
the Lord came down to them and blessed them.