One Monday, when the brothers had already gone out to work and had gone
each in his direction, the elder brother, Athanasius, was loath to part
from his brother, and he stopped and looked back. John was walking with
lowered head, in his direction, without looking back. But suddenly John,
too, stopped and, as though he had suddenly noticed something, gazed at
something, while shielding his eyes. Then he approached what he was
gazing at, suddenly jumped to one side, and, without looking back, ran
down-hill and up-hill again, away from the place, as though a wolf were
after him. Athanasius was surprised. He went back to that spot, to see
what it was that had so frightened his brother. He went up to it and
saw something shining in the sun. He came nearer, and there lay a heap
of gold on the ground, as though poured out from a measure. And
Athanasius was still more surprised, both at the gold and at his
brother's leap.

"Why was he frightened, and why did he run away?" thought Athanasius.
"There is no sin in gold. The sin is in man. With gold one may do wrong,
but also some good. How many orphans and widows may be fed, how many
naked people dressed, and the poor and sick aided with this gold! We now
serve people, but our service is small, though it is to the best of our
strength. With this gold, however, we can serve people better."

Thus Athanasius thought, and he wanted to tell it all to his brother;
but John was out of the range of hearing, and could be seen only as a
speck the size of a beetle on another mountain.

Athanasius took off his cloak, scooped up as much gold as he was able to
carry away, threw it on his shoulder, and carried it into the city. He
came to a hostelry and left the gold with the keeper, and went back for
the rest. When he had brought all the gold, he went to the merchants,
bought some land in the city, and stones and timber, and hired
labourers, and began to build three houses.

Athanasius lived for three months in the city, and built three houses
there: one--an asylum for widows and orphans, another--a hospital for
the sick and the lame, and a third--for pilgrims and for the needy. And
Athanasius found three God-fearing old men, and one of them he placed in
charge of the asylum, the second--of the hospital, and the third--of the
hostelry. And Athanasius had still three thousand gold coins left. He
gave each old man one thousand coins to distribute them to the poor.