Good people made Ilyás's friendship and became his friends. And guests
came to him from a distance. He received them all, and fed them, and
gave them to drink. No matter who came, he received kumys, and tea, and
sherbet, and mutton. If guests came to see him, a sheep or two were
killed, and if many guests arrived, he had them kill a mare.

Ilyás had two sons and a daughter. He had got all of them married. When
Ilyás had been poor, his sons had worked with him and had herded the
horses and the cattle and the sheep; but when they grew rich, the sons
became spoiled, and one of them even began to drink. One of them, the
eldest, was killed in a fight, and the other, the younger, had a proud
wife, and did not obey his father, and his father had to give him a
separate maintenance.

Ilyás gave him a house and cattle, and his own wealth was diminished.
Soon after a plague fell on Ilyás's sheep, and many of them died. Then
there was a famine year, the hay crop was a failure, and in the winter
many head of cattle died. Then the Kirgizes drove off the best herd of
horses. And thus Ilyás's estate grew less, and he fell lower and lower,
and his strength began to wane.

When he was seventy years old, he began to sell off his furs, rugs,
saddles, and tents, and soon had to sell his last head of cattle, so
that he was left without anything. Before he knew it, all was gone, and
in his old age he had to go with his wife to live among strangers. All
that Ilyás had left of his fortune was what garments he had on his body,
a fur coat, a cap, and his morocco slippers and shoes, and his wife,
Sham-shemagi, who was now an old woman. The son to whom he had given the
property had left for a distant country, and his daughter had died. And
so there was nobody to help the old people.

Their neighbour, Muhamedshah, took pity on them. Muhamedshah was neither
rich nor poor, and he lived an even life, and was a good man. He
remembered Ilyás's hospitality, and so pitied him, and said to Ilyás:

"Come to live with me, Ilyás, and bring your wife with you! In the
summer work according to your strength in my truck-garden, and in the
winter feed the cattle, and let Sham-shemagi milk the mares and make
kumys. I will feed and clothe you and will let you have whatever you may
need."

Ilyás thanked his neighbour, and went to live with his wife as
Muhamedshah's labourers. At first it was hard for them, but soon they
got used to the work, and the old people worked according to their
strength.