It was profitable for the master to keep these people, for they had been
masters themselves and knew all the order and were not lazy, but worked
according to their strength; but it pained Muhamedshah to see the
well-to-do people brought down so low.

One day distant guests, match-makers, happened to call on Muhamedshah;
and the mulla, too, came. Muhamedshah ordered his men to catch a sheep
and kill it. Ilyás flayed the sheep and cooked it and sent it in to the
guests. They ate the mutton, drank tea, and then started to drink kumys.
The guests and the master were sitting on down cushions on the rugs,
drinking kumys out of bowls, and talking; but Ilyás got through with his
work and walked past the door. When Muhamedshah saw him, he said to a
guest:

"Did you see the old man who just went past the door?"

"I did," said the guest; "but what is there remarkable about him?"

"What is remarkable is that he used to be our richest man. Ilyás is his
name; maybe you have heard of him?"

"Of course I have," said the guest. "I have never seen him, but his fame
has gone far abroad."

"Now he has nothing left, and he lives with me as a labourer, and his
wife is with him,--she milks the cows."

The guest was surprised. He clicked with his tongue, shook his head, and
said:

"Evidently fortune flies around like a wheel: one it lifts up, another
it takes down. Well, does the old man pine?"

"Who knows? He lives quietly and peaceably, and works well."

Then the guest said:

"May I speak with him? I should like to ask him about his life."

"Of course you may," said the master, and he called out of the tent:
"Babay!" (This means "grandfather" in the Bashkia language.) "Come in
and drink some kumys, and bring your wife with you!"

Ilyás came in with his wife. He exchanged greetings with the guests and
with the master, said a prayer, and knelt down at the door; but his wife
went back of a curtain and sat down with the mistress.

A bowl of kumys was handed to Ilyás. Ilyás saluted the guests and the
master, made a bow, drank a little, and put down the bowl.

"Grandfather," the guest said to him, "I suppose it makes you feel bad
to look at us and think of your former life, considering what fortune
you had and how hard your life is now."

But Ilyás smiled and said:

"If I should tell you about my happiness and unhappiness, you would not
believe me,--you had better ask my wife. She is a woman, and what is in
her heart is on her tongue: she will tell you all the truth about this
matter."

And the guest spoke to her behind the curtain:

"Well, granny, tell us how you judge about your former happiness and
present sorrow."

And Sham-shemagi spoke from behind the curtain: