"I judge like this: My husband and I lived for fifty years trying to
find happiness, and we did not find it; but now it is the second year
that we have nothing left and that we live as labourers, and we have
found that happiness and need no other."

The guests were surprised and the master marvelled, and he even got up
to throw aside the curtain and to look at the old woman. But the old
woman was standing with folded hands, smiling and looking at her
husband, and the old man was smiling, too. The old woman said once
more:

"I am telling you the truth, without any jest: for half a century we
tried to find happiness, and so long as we were rich, we did not find
it; now nothing is left, and we are working out,--and we have come to
have such happiness that we wish for no other.".

"Wherein does your happiness lie?"

"In this: when we were rich, my husband and I did not have an hour's
rest: we had no time to talk together, to think of our souls, or to
pray. We had so many cares! Now guests called on us,--and there were the
cares about what to treat them to and what presents to make so that they
should not misjudge us. When the guests left, we had to look after the
labourers: they thought only of resting and having something good to
eat, but we cared only about having our property attended to,--and so
sinned. Now we were afraid that a wolf would kill a colt or a calf, and
now that thieves might drive off a herd. When we lay down to sleep, we
could not fall asleep, fearing lest the sheep might crush the lambs. We
would get up in the night and walk around; no sooner would we be quieted
than we would have a new care,--how to get fodder for the winter. And,
worse than that, there was not much agreement between my husband and me.
He would say that this had to be done so and so, and I would say
differently, and so we began to quarrel, and sin. Thus we lived from one
care to another, from one sin to another, and saw no happy life."

"Well, and now?"

"Now my husband and I get up, speak together peaceably, in agreement,
for we have nothing to quarrel about, nothing to worry about,--all the
care we have is to serve our master. We work according to our strength,
and we work willingly so that our master shall have no loss, but profit.
When we come back, dinner is ready, and supper, and kumys. If it is
cold, there are dung chips to make a fire with and a fur coat to warm
ourselves. For fifty years we looked for happiness, but only now have we
found it."

The guests laughed.

And Ilyás said: