"Do not laugh, brothers! This is not a joke, but a matter of human life.
My wife and I were foolish and wept because we had lost our fortune, but
now God has revealed the truth to us, and we reveal this to you, not for
our amusement but for your good."

And the mulla said:

"That was a wise speech, and Ilyás has told the precise truth,--it says
so, too, in Holy Writ."

And the guests stopped laughing and fell to musing.

A FAIRY-TALE

About Iván the Fool and His Two Brothers, Semén the Warrior and
     Tarás the Paunch, and His Dumb Sister Malánya, and About the Old
     Devil and the Three Young Devils

1885

A FAIRY-TALE

About Iván the Fool and His Two Brothers, Semén the Warrior and
     Tarás the Paunch, and His Dumb Sister Malánya, and About the Old
     Devil and the Three Young Devils

I.

In a certain kingdom, in a certain realm, there lived a rich peasant. He
had three sons, Semén the Warrior, Tarás the Paunch, and Iván the Fool,
and a daughter Malánya, the dumb old maid.

Semén the Warrior went to war, to serve the king; Tarás the Paunch went
to a merchant in the city, to sell wares; but Iván the Fool and the girl
remained at home, to work and hump their backs.

Semén the Warrior earned a high rank and an estate, and married a lord's
daughter. His salary was big, and his estate was large, but still he
could not make both ends meet: whatever he collected, his wife scattered
as though from a sleeve, and they had no money.

Semén the Warrior came to his estate, to collect the revenue. His clerk
said to him:

"Where shall it come from? We have neither cattle, nor tools: neither
horses, nor cows, nor plough, nor harrow. Everything has to be
provided, then there will be an income."

And Semén the Warrior went to his father:

"You are rich, father," he said, "and you have not given me anything.
Cut off a third and I will transfer it to my estate."

And the old man said:

"You have brought nothing to my house, why should I give you a third? It
will be unfair to Iván and to the girl."

But Semén said:

"But he is a fool, and she is a dumb old maid. What do they need?"

And the old man said:

"As Iván says so it shall be!"

But Iván said:

"All right, let him have it!"

So Semén the Warrior took his third from the house, transferred it to
his estate, and again went away to serve the king.

Tarás the Paunch, too, earned much money,--and married a merchant woman.
Still he did not have enough, and he came to his father, and said:

"Give me my part!"

The old man did not want to give Tarás his part:

"You," he said, "have brought nothing to the house, and everything in
the house has been earned by Iván. I cannot be unfair to him and to the
girl."