But Tarás said:

"What does he want it for? He is a fool. He cannot marry, for no one
will have him; and the dumb girl does not need anything, either. Give
me," he said, "half of the grain, Iván! I will not take your tools, and
of your animals I want only the gray stallion,--you cannot plough with
him."

Iván laughed.

"All right," he said, "I will earn it again."

So Tarás, too, received his part. Tarás took the grain to town, and
drove off the gray stallion, and Iván was left with one old mare, and he
went on farming and supporting his father and his mother.

II.

The old devil was vexed because the brothers had not quarrelled in
dividing up, but had parted in love. And so he called up three young
devils.

"You see," he said, "there are three brothers, Semén the Warrior, Tarás
the Paunch, and Iván the Fool. They ought to be quarrelling, but,
instead, they live peacefully; they exchange with each other bread and
salt. The fool has spoiled all my business. Go all three of you.--get
hold of them, and mix them up in such a way that they shall tear out one
another's eyes. Can you do it?"

"We can," they said.

"How are you going to do it?"

"We will do it like this," they said: "First we will ruin them, so that
they will have nothing to eat; then we will throw them all in a heap, so
that they will quarrel together."

"Very well," he said. "I see that you know your business. Go, and do not
return to me before you have muddled all three, or else I will flay all
three of you."

The three devils all went to a swamp, and considered how to take hold of
the matter: they quarrelled and quarrelled, for they wanted each of them
to get the easiest job, and finally they decided to cast lots for each
man. If one of them got through first, he was to come and help the
others. The devils cast lots, and set a time when they were to meet
again in the swamp, in order to find out who was through, and who needed
help.

When the time came, the devils gathered in the swamp. They began to
talk about their affairs. The first devil, Semén the Warrior's, began to
speak.

"My affair," he said, "is progressing. To-morrow my Semén will go to his
father."

His comrades asked him how he did it.