"All right," he said, "God be with you!"

And the moment Iván mentioned God's name, the devil bolted through the
earth, as a stone plumps into the water, and only a hole was left. Iván
put the remaining two roots in his cap, and started to finish his work.
He ploughed up the strip, turned over the plough, and went home. He
unhitched the horse, came to the house, and there found his eldest
brother, Semén the Warrior, with his wife, eating supper. His estate had
been taken from him, and he had with difficulty escaped from prison and
come to his father's to live.

Semén saw Iván, and, "I have come to live with you," he said. "Feed me
and my wife until I find a new place!"

"All right," he said, "stay here!"

Iván wanted to sit down on a bench, but the lady did not like the smell
of Iván. So she said to her husband:

"I cannot eat supper with a stinking peasant."

"All right," he said, "I have to go anyway to pasture the mare for the
night."

Iván took some bread and his caftan, and went out to herd his mare.

IV.

That night Semén's devil got through with his work and by agreement went
to find Iván's devil, to help to make an end of the fool. He came to the
field and looked for him everywhere, but found only the hole.

"Something has evidently gone wrong with my comrade," he thought,--"I
must take his place. The ploughing is done,--I shall have to catch him
in the mowing time."

The devil went to the meadows and sent a flood on the mowing so that it
was all covered with mud. Iván returned in the morning from the night
watch, whetted his scythe, and went out to mow the meadows. He came, and
began to mow: he swung the scythe once, and a second time, and it grew
dull and would not cut,--it was necessary to grind it. Iván worked hard
and in vain.

"No," he said, "I will go home, and will bring the grindstone with me,
and a round loaf. If I have to stay here for a week, I will not give up
until I mow it all."

When the devil heard it he thought:

"This fool is stiff-necked,--I cannot get at him. I must try something
else."

Iván came back, ground his scythe, and began to mow. The devil crept
into the grass and began to catch the scythe by the snath-end and to
stick the point into the ground. It went hard with Iván, but he finished
the mowing, and there was left only one scrubby place in the swamp. The
devil crawled into the swamp and thought:

"If I get both my paws cut, I will not let him mow it."