Iván went into the swamp; the grass was not dense, but he found it hard
to move the scythe. Iván grew angry and began to swing the scythe with
all his might. The devil gave in; he had hardly time to get away,--he
saw that matters were in bad shape, so he hid in a bush. Iván swung the
scythe with all his might and struck the bush, and cut off half of the
devil's tail. Iván finished the mowing, told the girl to rake it up, and
himself went to cut the rye.

He went out with a round knife, but the bobtailed devil had been there
before him and had so mixed up the rye that he could not cut it with the
round knife. Iván went back, took the sickle, and began to cut it; he
cut all the rye.

"Now I must go to the oats," he said.

The bobtailed devil heard it, and thought:

"I could not cope with him on the rye, but I will get the better of him
in the oats,--just let the morning come."

The devil ran in the morning to the oats-field, but the oats were all
cut down. Iván had cut them in the night, to keep them from dropping the
seed.

The devil grew angry:

"The fool has cut me all up, and has worn me out. I have not seen such
trouble even in war-time. The accursed one does not sleep,--I cannot
keep up with him. I will go now to the ricks, and will rot them all."

And the devil went to the rye-rick, climbed between the sheaves, and
began to rot them: he warmed them up, and himself grew warm and fell
asleep.

Iván hitched his mare, and went with the girl to haul away the ricks. He
drove up to one and began to throw the sheaves into the cart. He had
just put two sheaves in when he stuck his fork straight into the devil's
back; he raised it, and, behold, on the prongs was a live devil, and a
bobtailed one at that, and he was writhing and twisting, and trying to
get off.

"I declare," he said, "it is a nasty thing! Are you here again?"

"I am a different devil," he said. "My brother was here before. I was
with your brother Semén."

"I do not care who you are," he replied, "you will catch it, too."

He wanted to strike him against the ground, but the devil began to beg
him:

"Let me go, and I will not do it again, and I will do for you anything
you please."

"What can you do?"

"I can make soldiers for you from anything."

"What good are they?"

"You can turn them to any use you please: they will do anything."

"Can they play music?"

"They can."

"All right, make them for me!"

And the devil said: