"Take a sheaf of rye, strike the lower end against the ground, and say:
'By my master's command not a sheaf shall you stand, but as many straws
as there are so many soldiers there be.'"

Iván took the sheaf, shook it against the ground, and spoke as the devil
told him to. And the sheaf fell to pieces, and the straws were changed
into soldiers, and in front a drummer was drumming, and a trumpeter
blowing the trumpet. Iván laughed.

"I declare," he said, "it is clever. This is nice to amuse the girls
with."

"Let me go now," said the devil.

"No," he said, "I will do that with threshed straw, and I will not let
full ears waste for nothing. I will thresh them first."

So the devil said:

"Say, 'As many soldiers, so many straws there be! With my master's
command again a sheaf it shall stand.'"

Iván said this, and the sheaf was as before. And the devil begged him
again:

"Let me go now!"

"All right!" Iván caught him on the cart-hurdle, held him down with his
hand, and pulled him off the fork. "God be with you!" he said.

The moment he said, "God be with you," the devil bolted through the
earth, as a stone plumps into the water, and only a hole was left.

Iván went home, and there he found his second brother. Tarás and his
wife were sitting and eating supper. Tarás the Paunch had not calculated
right, and so he ran away from his debts and came to his father's. When
he saw Iván, he said:

"Iván, feed me and my wife until I go back to trading!"

"All right," he said, "stay with us!"

Iván took off his caftan, and seated himself at the table.

But the merchant's wife said:

"I cannot eat with a fool. He stinks of sweat."

So Tarás the Paunch said:

"Iván, you do not smell right, so go and eat in the vestibule!"

"All right," he said, and, taking bread, he went out. "It is just
right," he said, "for it is time for me to go and pasture the mare for
the night."

V.

That night Tarás's devil got through with his job, and he went by
agreement to help out his comrades,--to get the best of Iván the Fool.
He came to the field and tried to find his comrades, but all he saw was
a hole in the ground; he went to the meadows, and found a tail in the
swamp, and in the rye stubbles he found another hole.

"Well," he thought, "evidently some misfortune has befallen my comrades;
I must take their place, and go for the fool."

The devil went forth to find Iván. But Iván was through with the field,
and was chopping wood in the forest.

The brothers were not comfortable living together, and they had ordered
the fool to cut timber with which to build them new huts.