"Indeed? Why did you not tell me so long ago?" he said. "I will make as
many for you as you please. Luckily the girl and I have threshed a lot
of straw."

Iván took his brother to the threshing-floor, and said:

"Look here! I will make them for you, but you take them away, or else,
if we have to feed them, they will ruin the village in one day."

Semén the Warrior promised that he would take the soldiers away, and
Iván began to make them. He struck a sheaf against the floor, there was
a company; he struck another, there was a second, and he made such a lot
of them that they took up the whole field.

"Well, will that do?"

Semén was happy, and said:

"It will do. Thank you, Iván."

"All right," he said. "If you need more, come to me, and I will make you
more. There is plenty of straw to-day."

Semén the Warrior at once attended to the army, collected it as was
proper, and went forth to fight.

No sooner had Semén the Warrior left, than Tarás the Paunch came. He,
too, had heard of the evening's affair, and he began to beg his brother:

"Reveal to me, where do you get the gold money from? If I had such free
money, I would with it gather in all the money of the whole world."

Iván was surprised.

"Indeed? You ought to have told me so long ago," he said. "I will rub up
for you as much as you want."

His brother was glad:

"Give me at least three seed-baskets full!"

"All right," he said, "let us go to the woods! But hitch up the horse,
or you will not be able to carry it away."

They went to the woods, and Iván began to rub the oak leaves. He rubbed
up a large heap.

"Will that do, eh?"

Tarás was happy.

"It will do for awhile," he said. "Thank you, Iván."

"You are welcome. If you need more, come to me, and I will rub up some
more,--there are plenty of leaves left."

Tarás the Paunch gathered a whole wagon-load of money, and went away to
trade with it.

Both brothers left the home. And Semén went out to fight, and Tarás to
trade. And Semén the Warrior conquered a whole kingdom for himself,
while Tarás the Paunch made a big heap of money by trading.

The brothers met, and they revealed to one another where Semén got the
soldiers, and Tarás the money.

Semén the Warrior said to his brother:

"I have conquered a kingdom for myself, and I lead a good life, only I
have not enough money to feed my soldiers with."

And Tarás the Paunch said:

"And I have earned a whole mound of money, but here is the trouble: I
have nobody to guard the money."

So Semén the Warrior said: