But the King of India heard of King Semén, and adopted all his
inventions and added a few of his own. The King of India drafted not
only all the young men, but he also made all the unmarried women serve
as soldiers, and so he had even more soldiers than King Semén. He
adopted all of King Semén's guns and cannon, and introduced flying in
the air and throwing explosive bombs from above.

King Semén went out to make war on the King of India. He thought that he
would conquer him as he had conquered before; but the scythe was cutting
too fine,--the King of India did not give Semén's army a chance to fire
a single shot, for he sent his women into the air, to throw explosive
bombs on Semén's army. The women began to pour the bombs on Semén's
army, like borax on cockroaches, and the whole army ran away, and King
Semén was left alone. The King of India took possession of the whole of
Semén's kingdom, and Semén the Warrior ran whither his eyes took him.

The old devil had done up this brother, and he made for King Tarás. He
took the shape of a merchant and settled in Tarás's kingdom. He started
an establishment, and began to issue money. The merchant paid high
prices for everything, and the whole nation rushed to the merchant to
get his money. And the people had so much money that they paid all their
back taxes and paid on time all the taxes as they fell due. King Tarás
was happy.

"Thanks to the merchant," he thought, "I shall now have more money than
ever, and my life will improve."

And King Tarás fell on new plans. He began to build himself a new
palace: he commanded the people to haul lumber and stone, and to come to
work, and offered high prices for everything. King Tarás thought that as
before the people would rush to work for him. But, behold, all the
lumber and stone was being hauled to the merchant, and only the
labourers were rushing to the king.

King Tarás offered higher prices, but the merchant went higher still.
King Tarás had much money, but the merchant had more still, and the
merchant could offer better pay than the king. The royal palace came to
a standstill,--it could not be built.

King Tarás wanted to get a garden laid out. When the fall came, King
Tarás proclaimed that he wanted people to come and set out trees for
him; but nobody came, as they were all digging a pond for the merchant.

Winter came. King Tarás wanted to buy sable furs for a new coat, and he
sent out men to buy them. The messenger came back, and said that there
were no sables,--that all the furs were in the merchant's possession, as
he had offered a higher price, and that he had made himself a sable rug.