"If you, dear people," they said, "have not enough to live on in your
country, come and settle among us."

The soldiers walked and walked, but no army was to be found; everywhere
people were living, and feeding themselves and other people, and they
did not resist, but invited them to come and live with them.

The soldiers felt bad, and they came back to the King of Cockroachland.

"We cannot fight here," they said, "so take us to some other place: war
would be a good thing, but this is as though we were to cut soup. We
cannot fight here."

The King of Cockroachland grew wroth, and commanded his soldiers to
march through the whole kingdom, and destroy villages and houses, and
burn the grain and kill the cattle.

"If you do not obey my command," he said, "I shall have you all
executed."

The soldiers became frightened, and began to carry out the king's
command. They started to burn the houses and the grain, and to kill the
cattle. And still the fools did not resist, but only wept. The old men
wept, and the old women wept, and the children wept.

"Why do you offend us? Why do you destroy the property? If you need it,
take it along!"

The soldiers felt ashamed. They did not go any farther, and the whole
army ran away.

XII.

The old devil went away,--he could not get at Iván by means of the
soldiers. The old devil changed into a clean-looking gentleman, and went
to live in Iván's kingdom: he wished to get at him by means of money, as
he had done with Tarás the Paunch.

"I want to do you good," he said, "and to teach you what is good and
proper. I will build a house in your country, and will start an
establishment."

"All right," he said, "stay here!"

The clean-looking gentleman stayed overnight, and the following morning
he took a large bag of gold to the market-square, and a sheet of paper,
and said:

"You are all of you living like pigs. I will teach you how to live.
Build me a house according to this plan! You work, and I will show you
how, and will pay gold money to you."

And he showed them the gold. The fools were astounded: they had no such
a thing as money, and only exchanged things among themselves, or paid
with work. They marvelled at the gold and said:

"They are nice things."

And for these gold things they began to give him what they had and to
work for him. The old devil rejoiced and thought:

"My affair is proceeding favourably. I will now ruin Iván completely, as
I have ruined Tarás, and will buy him up, guts and all."