“Well, I do, too—_live_ ones. But I mean dead ones, to swing round your
head with a string.”

“No, I don’t care for rats much, anyway. What I like is chewing-gum.”

“Oh, I should say so! I wish I had some now.”

“Do you? I’ve got some. I’ll let you chew it awhile, but you must give
it back to me.”

That was agreeable, so they chewed it turn about, and dangled their legs
against the bench in excess of contentment.

“Was you ever at a circus?” said Tom.

“Yes, and my pa’s going to take me again some time, if I’m good.”

“I been to the circus three or four times—lots of times. Church ain’t
shucks to a circus. There’s things going on at a circus all the time.
I’m going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up.”

“Oh, are you! That will be nice. They’re so lovely, all spotted up.”

“Yes, that’s so. And they get slathers of money—most a dollar a day, Ben
Rogers says. Say, Becky, was you ever engaged?”

“What’s that?”

“Why, engaged to be married.”

“No.”

“Would you like to?”

“I reckon so. I don’t know. What is it like?”

“Like? Why it ain’t like anything. You only just tell a boy you won’t
ever have anybody but him, ever ever ever, and then you kiss and that’s
all. Anybody can do it.”

“Kiss? What do you kiss for?”

“Why, that, you know, is to—well, they always do that.”

“Everybody?”

“Why, yes, everybody that’s in love with each other. Do you remember
what I wrote on the slate?”

“Ye—yes.”

“What was it?”

“I sha’n’t tell you.”

“Shall I tell _you_?”

“Ye—yes—but some other time.”

“No, now.”

“No, not now—to-morrow.”

“Oh, no, _now_. Please, Becky—I’ll whisper it, I’ll whisper it ever so
easy.”

Becky hesitating, Tom took silence for consent, and passed his arm about
her waist and whispered the tale ever so softly, with his mouth close to
her ear. And then he added:

“Now you whisper it to me—just the same.”

She resisted, for a while, and then said:

“You turn your face away so you can’t see, and then I will. But you
mustn’t ever tell anybody—_will_ you, Tom? Now you won’t, _will_ you?”

“No, indeed, indeed I won’t. Now, Becky.”

He turned his face away. She bent timidly around till her breath stirred
his curls and whispered, “I—love—you!”

Then she sprang away and ran around and around the desks and benches,
with Tom after her, and took refuge in a corner at last, with her little
white apron to her face. Tom clasped her about her neck and pleaded:

“Now, Becky, it’s all done—all over but the kiss. Don’t you be afraid
of that—it ain’t anything at all. Please, Becky.” And he tugged at her
apron and the hands.

By and by she gave up, and let her hands drop; her face, all glowing
with the struggle, came up and submitted. Tom kissed the red lips and
said: