“Shut up, Sid! A body does just the same in a dream as he’d do if he was
awake. Here’s a big Milum apple I’ve been saving for you, Tom, if you
was ever found again—now go ’long to school. I’m thankful to the good
God and Father of us all I’ve got you back, that’s long-suffering and
merciful to them that believe on Him and keep His word, though goodness
knows I’m unworthy of it, but if only the worthy ones got His blessings
and had His hand to help them over the rough places, there’s few enough
would smile here or ever enter into His rest when the long night comes.
Go ’long Sid, Mary, Tom—take yourselves off—you’ve hendered me long
enough.”

The children left for school, and the old lady to call on Mrs. Harper
and vanquish her realism with Tom’s marvellous dream. Sid had better
judgment than to utter the thought that was in his mind as he left the
house. It was this: “Pretty thin—as long a dream as that, without any
mistakes in it!”

What a hero Tom was become, now! He did not go skipping and prancing,
but moved with a dignified swagger as became a pirate who felt that the
public eye was on him. And indeed it was; he tried not to seem to see
the looks or hear the remarks as he passed along, but they were food and
drink to him. Smaller boys than himself flocked at his heels, as proud
to be seen with him, and tolerated by him, as if he had been the drummer
at the head of a procession or the elephant leading a menagerie into
town. Boys of his own size pretended not to know he had been away at
all; but they were consuming with envy, nevertheless. They would have
given anything to have that swarthy sun-tanned skin of his, and his
glittering notoriety; and Tom would not have parted with either for a
circus.

At school the children made so much of him and of Joe, and delivered
such eloquent admiration from their eyes, that the two heroes were
not long in becoming insufferably “stuck-up.” They began to tell their
adventures to hungry listeners—but they only began; it was not a
thing likely to have an end, with imaginations like theirs to furnish
material. And finally, when they got out their pipes and went serenely
puffing around, the very summit of glory was reached.