“Because I loved you so, and you laid there moaning and I was so sorry.”

The words sounded like truth. The old lady could not hide a tremor in
her voice when she said:

“Kiss me again, Tom!—and be off with you to school, now, and don’t
bother me any more.”

The moment he was gone, she ran to a closet and got out the ruin of a
jacket which Tom had gone pirating in. Then she stopped, with it in her
hand, and said to herself:

“No, I don’t dare. Poor boy, I reckon he’s lied about it—but it’s a
blessed, blessed lie, there’s such a comfort come from it. I hope
the Lord—I _know_ the Lord will forgive him, because it was such
good-heartedness in him to tell it. But I don’t want to find out it’s a
lie. I won’t look.”

She put the jacket away, and stood by musing a minute. Twice she put out
her hand to take the garment again, and twice she refrained. Once more
she ventured, and this time she fortified herself with the thought:
“It’s a good lie—it’s a good lie—I won’t let it grieve me.” So she
sought the jacket pocket. A moment later she was reading Tom’s piece of
bark through flowing tears and saying: “I could forgive the boy, now, if
he’d committed a million sins!”

CHAPTER XX

There was something about Aunt Polly’s manner, when she kissed Tom, that
swept away his low spirits and made him lighthearted and happy again. He
started to school and had the luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at the
head of Meadow Lane. His mood always determined his manner. Without a
moment’s hesitation he ran to her and said:

“I acted mighty mean today, Becky, and I’m so sorry. I won’t ever, ever
do that way again, as long as ever I live—please make up, won’t you?”

The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face:

“I’ll thank you to keep yourself _to_ yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer. I’ll
never speak to you again.”

She tossed her head and passed on. Tom was so stunned that he had not
even presence of mind enough to say “Who cares, Miss Smarty?” until the
right time to say it had gone by. So he said nothing. But he was in a
fine rage, nevertheless. He moped into the schoolyard wishing she were
a boy, and imagining how he would trounce her if she were. He presently
encountered her and delivered a stinging remark as he passed. She hurled
one in return, and the angry breach was complete. It seemed to Becky, in
her hot resentment, that she could hardly wait for school to “take in,”
 she was so impatient to see Tom flogged for the injured spelling-book.
If she had had any lingering notion of exposing Alfred Temple, Tom’s
offensive fling had driven it entirely away.