“What a curious kind of a fool a girl is! Never been licked in
school! Shucks! What’s a licking! That’s just like a girl—they’re so
thin-skinned and chicken-hearted. Well, of course I ain’t going to tell
old Dobbins on this little fool, because there’s other ways of getting
even on her, that ain’t so mean; but what of it? Old Dobbins will ask
who it was tore his book. Nobody’ll answer. Then he’ll do just the way
he always does—ask first one and then t’other, and when he comes to the
right girl he’ll know it, without any telling. Girls’ faces always tell
on them. They ain’t got any backbone. She’ll get licked. Well, it’s a
kind of a tight place for Becky Thatcher, because there ain’t any way
out of it.” Tom conned the thing a moment longer, and then added: “All
right, though; she’d like to see me in just such a fix—let her sweat it
out!”

Tom joined the mob of skylarking scholars outside. In a few moments the
master arrived and school “took in.” Tom did not feel a strong interest
in his studies. Every time he stole a glance at the girls’ side of the
room Becky’s face troubled him. Considering all things, he did not want
to pity her, and yet it was all he could do to help it. He could get
up no exultation that was really worthy the name. Presently the
spelling-book discovery was made, and Tom’s mind was entirely full
of his own matters for a while after that. Becky roused up from her
lethargy of distress and showed good interest in the proceedings. She
did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he
spilt the ink on the book himself; and she was right. The denial only
seemed to make the thing worse for Tom. Becky supposed she would be glad
of that, and she tried to believe she was glad of it, but she found she
was not certain. When the worst came to the worst, she had an impulse
to get up and tell on Alfred Temple, but she made an effort and forced
herself to keep still—because, said she to herself, “he’ll tell about me
tearing the picture sure. I wouldn’t say a word, not to save his life!”

Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at all
broken-hearted, for he thought it was possible that he had unknowingly
upset the ink on the spelling-book himself, in some skylarking bout—he
had denied it for form’s sake and because it was custom, and had stuck
to the denial from principle.