Tom mentally ran over the days of the week, and then quickly lifted his
eyes with a startled look in them—

“My! I never once thought of it, Huck!”

“Well, I didn’t neither, but all at once it popped onto me that it was
Friday.”

“Blame it, a body can’t be too careful, Huck. We might ’a’ got into an
awful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday.”

“_Might_! Better say we _would_! There’s some lucky days, maybe, but
Friday ain’t.”

“Any fool knows that. I don’t reckon _you_ was the first that found it
out, Huck.”

“Well, I never said I was, did I? And Friday ain’t all, neither. I had a
rotten bad dream last night—dreampt about rats.”

“No! Sure sign of trouble. Did they fight?”

“No.”

“Well, that’s good, Huck. When they don’t fight it’s only a sign that
there’s trouble around, you know. All we got to do is to look mighty
sharp and keep out of it. We’ll drop this thing for today, and play. Do
you know Robin Hood, Huck?”

“No. Who’s Robin Hood?”

“Why, he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England—and the
best. He was a robber.”

“Cracky, I wisht I was. Who did he rob?”

“Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like. But
he never bothered the poor. He loved ’em. He always divided up with ’em
perfectly square.”

“Well, he must ’a’ been a brick.”

“I bet you he was, Huck. Oh, he was the noblest man that ever was.
They ain’t any such men now, I can tell you. He could lick any man in
England, with one hand tied behind him; and he could take his yew bow
and plug a ten-cent piece every time, a mile and a half.”

“What’s a _yew_ bow?”

“I don’t know. It’s some kind of a bow, of course. And if he hit that
dime only on the edge he would set down and cry—and curse. But we’ll
play Robin Hood—it’s nobby fun. I’ll learn you.”

“I’m agreed.”

So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then casting a
yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about the
morrow’s prospects and possibilities there. As the sun began to sink
into the west they took their way homeward athwart the long shadows
of the trees and soon were buried from sight in the forests of Cardiff
Hill.