They moved up the river street three blocks, then turned to the left up
a crossstreet. They went straight ahead, then, until they came to the
path that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They passed by the old
Welshman’s house, halfway up the hill, without hesitating, and still
climbed upward. Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in the old quarry.
But they never stopped at the quarry. They passed on, up the summit.
They plunged into the narrow path between the tall sumach bushes, and
were at once hidden in the gloom. Huck closed up and shortened his
distance, now, for they would never be able to see him. He trotted along
awhile; then slackened his pace, fearing he was gaining too fast; moved
on a piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save that
he seemed to hear the beating of his own heart. The hooting of an
owl came over the hill—ominous sound! But no footsteps. Heavens, was
everything lost! He was about to spring with winged feet, when a man
cleared his throat not four feet from him! Huck’s heart shot into his
throat, but he swallowed it again; and then he stood there shaking as
if a dozen agues had taken charge of him at once, and so weak that he
thought he must surely fall to the ground. He knew where he was. He
knew he was within five steps of the stile leading into Widow Douglas’
grounds. Very well, he thought, let them bury it there; it won’t be hard
to find.

Now there was a voice—a very low voice—Injun Joe’s:

“Damn her, maybe she’s got company—there’s lights, late as it is.”

“I can’t see any.”

This was that stranger’s voice—the stranger of the haunted house. A
deadly chill went to Huck’s heart—this, then, was the “revenge” job! His
thought was, to fly. Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been
kind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to murder
her. He wished he dared venture to warn her; but he knew he didn’t
dare—they might come and catch him. He thought all this and more in
the moment that elapsed between the stranger’s remark and Injun Joe’s
next—which was—

“Because the bush is in your way. Now—this way—now you see, don’t you?”

“Yes. Well, there _is_ company there, I reckon. Better give it up.”

“Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up and
maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I’ve told you
before, I don’t care for her swag—you may have it. But her husband was
rough on me—many times he was rough on me—and mainly he was the justice
of the peace that jugged me for a vagrant. And that ain’t all. It ain’t
a millionth part of it! He had me _horsewhipped_!—horsewhipped in
front of the jail, like a nigger!—with all the town looking on!
_Horsewhipped_!—do you understand? He took advantage of me and died. But
I’ll take it out of _her_.”