“Money. You make them raise all they can, off’n their friends; and after
you’ve kept them a year, if it ain’t raised then you kill them. That’s
the general way. Only you don’t kill the women. You shut up the women,
but you don’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfully
scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat
off and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers—you’ll see
that in any book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they’ve
been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that
you couldn’t get them to leave. If you drove them out they’d turn right
around and come back. It’s so in all the books.”

“Why, it’s real bully, Tom. I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.”

“Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses
and all that.”

By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in
the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then
made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps brought
them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him.
He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay
against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame
struggle and expire.

The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness and
gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently
entered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the
“jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was not
really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet
high. Tom whispered:

“Now I’ll show you something, Huck.”

He held his candle aloft and said:

“Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There—on the
big rock over yonder—done with candle-smoke.”

“Tom, it’s a _cross_!”

“_Now_ where’s your Number Two? ‘_under the cross_,’ hey? Right yonder’s
where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”

Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:

“Tom, less git out of here!”

“What! and leave the treasure?”

“Yes—leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”

“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he
died—away out at the mouth of the cave—five mile from here.”

“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of
ghosts, and so do you.”

Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Misgivings gathered in his mind.
But presently an idea occurred to him—

“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s
ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”

The point was well taken. It had its effect.