“Simple and odd,” said Dupin.

“Why, yes; and not exactly that, either. The fact is, we have all
      been a good deal puzzled because the affair is so simple, and yet
      baffles us altogether.”

“Perhaps it is the very simplicity of the thing which puts you at
      fault,” said my friend.

“What nonsense you do talk!” replied the Prefect, laughing
      heartily.

“Perhaps the mystery is a little too plain,” said Dupin.

“Oh, good heavens! who ever heard of such an idea?”

“A little too self-evident.”

“Ha! ha! ha—ha! ha! ha!—ho! ho! ho!” roared our visitor,
      profoundly amused, “oh, Dupin, you will be the death of me yet!”

“And what, after all, is the matter on hand?” I asked.

“Why, I will tell you,” replied the Prefect, as he gave a long,
      steady and contemplative puff, and settled himself in his chair.
      “I will tell you in a few words; but, before I begin, let me
      caution you that this is an affair demanding the greatest
      secrecy, and that I should most probably lose the position I now
      hold, were it known that I confided it to any one.”

“Proceed,” said I.

“Or not,” said Dupin.

“Well, then; I have received personal information, from a very
      high quarter, that a certain document of the last importance has
      been purloined from the royal apartments. The individual who
      purloined it is known; this beyond a doubt; he was seen to take
      it. It is known, also, that it still remains in his possession.”

“How is this known?” asked Dupin.

“It is clearly inferred,” replied the Prefect, “from the nature
      of the document, and from the non-appearance of certain results
      which would at once arise from its passing out of the robber’s
      possession; that is to say, from his employing it as he must
      design in the end to employ it.”

“Be a little more explicit,” I said.

“Well, I may venture so far as to say that the paper gives its
      holder a certain power in a certain quarter where such power is
      immensely valuable.” The Prefect was fond of the cant of
      diplomacy.

“Still I do not quite understand,” said Dupin.

“No? Well; the disclosure of the document to a third person, who
      shall be nameless, would bring in question the honor of a
      personage of most exalted station; and this fact gives the holder
      of the document an ascendancy over the illustrious personage
      whose honor and peace are so jeopardized.”

“But this ascendancy,” I interposed, “would depend upon the
      robber’s knowledge of the loser’s knowledge of the robber. Who
      would dare—”