“The thief,” said G., “is the Minister D——, who dares all things,
      those unbecoming as well as those becoming a man. The method of
      the theft was not less ingenious than bold. The document in
      question—a letter, to be frank—had been received by the personage
      robbed while alone in the royal boudoir. During its perusal she
      was suddenly interrupted by the entrance of the other exalted
      personage from whom especially it was her wish to conceal it.
      After a hurried and vain endeavor to thrust it in a drawer, she
      was forced to place it, open as it was, upon a table. The
      address, however, was uppermost, and, the contents thus
      unexposed, the letter escaped notice. At this juncture enters the
      Minister D——. His lynx eye immediately perceives the paper,
      recognises the handwriting of the address, observes the confusion
      of the personage addressed, and fathoms her secret. After some
      business transactions, hurried through in his ordinary manner, he
      produces a letter somewhat similar to the one in question, opens
      it, pretends to read it, and then places it in close
      juxtaposition to the other. Again he converses, for some fifteen
      minutes, upon the public affairs. At length, in taking leave, he
      takes also from the table the letter to which he had no claim.
      Its rightful owner saw, but, of course, dared not call attention
      to the act, in the presence of the third personage who stood at
      her elbow. The minister decamped; leaving his own letter—one of
      no importance—upon the table.”

“Here, then,” said Dupin to me, “you have precisely what you
      demand to make the ascendancy complete—the robber’s knowledge of
      the loser’s knowledge of the robber.”

“Yes,” replied the Prefect; “and the power thus attained has, for
      some months past, been wielded, for political purposes, to a very
      dangerous extent. The personage robbed is more thoroughly
      convinced, every day, of the necessity of reclaiming her letter.
      But this, of course, cannot be done openly. In fine, driven to
      despair, she has committed the matter to me.”

“Than whom,” said Dupin, amid a perfect whirlwind of smoke, “no
      more sagacious agent could, I suppose, be desired, or even
      imagined.”

“You flatter me,” replied the Prefect; “but it is possible that
      some such opinion may have been entertained.”

“It is clear,” said I, “as you observe, that the letter is still
      in possession of the minister; since it is this possession, and
      not any employment of the letter, which bestows the power. With
      the employment the power departs.”

“True,” said G.; “and upon this conviction I proceeded. My first
      care was to make thorough search of the minister’s hotel; and
      here my chief embarrassment lay in the necessity of searching
      without his knowledge. Beyond all things, I have been warned of
      the danger which would result from giving him reason to suspect
      our design.”

“But,” said I, “you are quite au fait in these investigations.
      The Parisian police have done this thing often before.”