“Oh, yes; and for this reason I did not despair. The habits of
      the minister gave me, too, a great advantage. He is frequently
      absent from home all night. His servants are by no means
      numerous. They sleep at a distance from their master’s apartment,
      and, being chiefly Neapolitans, are readily made drunk. I have
      keys, as you know, with which I can open any chamber or cabinet
      in Paris. For three months a night has not passed, during the
      greater part of which I have not been engaged, personally, in
      ransacking the D—— Hotel. My honor is interested, and, to mention
      a great secret, the reward is enormous. So I did not abandon the
      search until I had become fully satisfied that the thief is a
      more astute man than myself. I fancy that I have investigated
      every nook and corner of the premises in which it is possible
      that the paper can be concealed.”

“But is it not possible,” I suggested, “that although the letter
      may be in possession of the minister, as it unquestionably is, he
      may have concealed it elsewhere than upon his own premises?”

“This is barely possible,” said Dupin. “The present peculiar
      condition of affairs at court, and especially of those intrigues
      in which D—— is known to be involved, would render the instant
      availability of the document—its susceptibility of being produced
      at a moment’s notice—a point of nearly equal importance with its
      possession.”

“Its susceptibility of being produced?” said I.

“That is to say, of being destroyed,” said Dupin.

“True,” I observed; “the paper is clearly then upon the premises.
      As for its being upon the person of the minister, we may consider
      that as out of the question.”

inspection.”

“You might have spared yourself this trouble,” said Dupin. “D——,
      I presume, is not altogether a fool, and, if not, must have
      anticipated these waylayings, as a matter of course.”

“Not altogether a fool,” said G., “but then he’s a poet, which I
      take to be only one remove from a fool.”

“True,” said Dupin, after a long and thoughtful whiff from his
      meerschaum, “although I have been guilty of certain doggrel
      myself.”

“Suppose you detail,” said I, “the particulars of your search.”