“Why the fact is, we took our time, and we searched _everywhere_.
      I have had long experience in these affairs. I took the entire
      building, room by room; devoting the nights of a whole week to
      each. We examined, first, the furniture of each apartment. We
      opened every possible drawer; and I presume you know that, to a
      properly trained police agent, such a thing as a secret drawer is
      impossible. Any man is a dolt who permits a ‘secret’ drawer to
      escape him in a search of this kind. The thing is so plain. There
      is a certain amount of bulk—of space—to be accounted for in every
      cabinet. Then we have accurate rules. The fiftieth part of a line
      could not escape us. After the cabinets we took the chairs. The
      cushions we probed with the fine long needles you have seen me
      employ. From the tables we removed the tops.”

“Why so?”

“Sometimes the top of a table, or other similarly arranged piece
      of furniture, is removed by the person wishing to conceal an
      article; then the leg is excavated, the article deposited within
      the cavity, and the top replaced. The bottoms and tops of
      bedposts are employed in the same way.”

“But could not the cavity be detected by sounding?” I asked.

“By no means, if, when the article is deposited, a sufficient
      wadding of cotton be placed around it. Besides, in our case, we
      were obliged to proceed without noise.”

“But you could not have removed—you could not have taken to
      pieces all articles of furniture in which it would have been
      possible to make a deposit in the manner you mention. A letter
      may be compressed into a thin spiral roll, not differing much in
      shape or bulk from a large knitting-needle, and in this form it
      might be inserted into the rung of a chair, for example. You did
      not take to pieces all the chairs?”

“Certainly not; but we did better—we examined the rungs of every
      chair in the hotel, and, indeed the jointings of every
      description of furniture, by the aid of a most powerful
      microscope. Had there been any traces of recent disturbance we
      should not have failed to detect it instantly. A single grain of
      gimlet-dust, for example, would have been as obvious as an apple.
      Any disorder in the glueing—any unusual gaping in the
      joints—would have sufficed to insure detection.”

“I presume you looked to the mirrors, between the boards and the
      plates, and you probed the beds and the bed-clothes, as well as
      the curtains and carpets.”

“That of course; and when we had absolutely completed every
      particle of the furniture in this way, then we examined the house
      itself. We divided its entire surface into compartments, which we
      numbered, so that none might be missed; then we scrutinized each
      individual square inch throughout the premises, including the two
      houses immediately adjoining, with the microscope, as before.”

“The two houses adjoining!” I exclaimed; “you must have had a
      great deal of trouble.”

“We had; but the reward offered is prodigious!”