“You include the grounds about the houses?”

“All the grounds are paved with brick. They gave us comparatively
      little trouble. We examined the moss between the bricks, and
      found it undisturbed.”

“You looked among D——‘s papers, of course, and into the books of
      the library?”

“Certainly; we opened every package and parcel; we not only
      opened every book, but we turned over every leaf in each volume,
      not contenting ourselves with a mere shake, according to the
      fashion of some of our police officers. We also measured the
      thickness of every book-cover, with the most accurate
      admeasurement, and applied to each the most jealous scrutiny of
      the microscope. Had any of the bindings been recently meddled
      with, it would have been utterly impossible that the fact should
      have escaped observation. Some five or six volumes, just from the
      hands of the binder, we carefully probed, longitudinally, with
      the needles.”

“You explored the floors beneath the carpets?”

“Beyond doubt. We removed every carpet, and examined the boards
      with the microscope.”

“And the paper on the walls?”

“Yes.”

“You looked into the cellars?”

“We did.”

“Then,” I said, “you have been making a miscalculation, and the
      letter is not upon the premises, as you suppose.”

“I fear you are right there,” said the Prefect. “And now, Dupin,
      what would you advise me to do?”

“To make a thorough re-search of the premises.”

“That is absolutely needless,” replied G——. “I am not more sure
      that I breathe than I am that the letter is not at the Hotel.”

“I have no better advice to give you,” said Dupin. “You have, of
      course, an accurate description of the letter?”

“Oh yes!”—And here the Prefect, producing a memorandum-book,
      proceeded to read aloud a minute account of the internal, and
      especially of the external appearance of the missing document.
      Soon after finishing the perusal of this description, he took his
      departure, more entirely depressed in spirits than I had ever
      known the good gentleman before.

In about a month afterwards he paid us another visit, and found
      us occupied very nearly as before. He took a pipe and a chair and
      entered into some ordinary conversation. At length I said,—

“Well, but G——, what of the purloined letter? I presume you have
      at last made up your mind that there is no such thing as
      overreaching the Minister?”

“Confound him, say I—yes; I made the re-examination, however, as
      Dupin suggested—but it was all labor lost, as I knew it would
      be.”

“How much was the reward offered, did you say?” asked Dupin.

“Why, a very great deal—a very liberal reward—I don’t like to say
      how much, precisely; but one thing I will say, that I wouldn’t
      mind giving my individual check for fifty thousand francs to any
      one who could obtain me that letter. The fact is, it is becoming
      of more and more importance every day; and the reward has been
      lately doubled. If it were trebled, however, I could do no more
      than I have done.”