“Why, yes,” said Dupin, drawlingly, between the whiffs of his
      meerschaum, “I really—think, G——, you have not exerted
      yourself—to the utmost in this matter. You might—do a little
      more, I think, eh?”

“How?—in what way?”

“Why—puff, puff—you might—puff, puff—employ counsel in the
      matter, eh?—puff, puff, puff. Do you remember the story they tell
      of Abernethy?”

“No; hang Abernethy!”

“To be sure! hang him and welcome. But, once upon a time, a
      certain rich miser conceived the design of spunging upon this
      Abernethy for a medical opinion. Getting up, for this purpose, an
      ordinary conversation in a private company, he insinuated his
      case to the physician, as that of an imaginary individual.

“‘We will suppose,’ said the miser, ‘that his symptoms are such
      and such; now, doctor, what would you have directed him to take?’

“‘Take!’ said Abernethy, ‘why, take advice, to be sure.’”

“But,” said the Prefect, a little discomposed, “I am perfectly
      willing to take advice, and to pay for it. I would really give
      fifty thousand francs to any one who would aid me in the matter.”

“In that case,” replied Dupin, opening a drawer, and producing a
      check-book, “you may as well fill me up a check for the amount
      mentioned. When you have signed it, I will hand you the letter.”

I was astounded. The Prefect appeared absolutely
      thunder-stricken. For some minutes he remained speechless and
      motionless, looking incredulously at my friend with open mouth,
      and eyes that seemed starting from their sockets; then,
      apparently recovering himself in some measure, he seized a pen,
      and after several pauses and vacant stares, finally filled up and
      signed a check for fifty thousand francs, and handed it across
      the table to Dupin. The latter examined it carefully and
      deposited it in his pocket-book; then, unlocking an escritoire,
      took thence a letter and gave it to the Prefect. This functionary
      grasped it in a perfect agony of joy, opened it with a trembling
      hand, cast a rapid glance at its contents, and then, scrambling
      and struggling to the door, rushed at length unceremoniously from
      the room and from the house, without having uttered a syllable
      since Dupin had requested him to fill up the check.

When he had gone, my friend entered into some explanations.

“The Parisian police,” he said, “are exceedingly able in their
      way. They are persevering, ingenious, cunning, and thoroughly
      versed in the knowledge which their duties seem chiefly to
      demand. Thus, when G—— detailed to us his mode of searching the
      premises at the Hotel D——, I felt entire confidence in his having
      made a satisfactory investigation—so far as his labors extended.”

“So far as his labors extended?” said I.

“Yes,” said Dupin. “The measures adopted were not only the best
      of their kind, but carried out to absolute perfection. Had the
      letter been deposited within the range of their search, these
      fellows would, beyond a question, have found it.”

I merely laughed—but he seemed quite serious in all that he said.