“The measures, then,” he continued, “were good in their kind, and
      well executed; their defect lay in their being inapplicable to
      the case, and to the man. A certain set of highly ingenious
      resources are, with the Prefect, a sort of Procrustean bed, to
      which he forcibly adapts his designs. But he perpetually errs by
      being too deep or too shallow for the matter in hand; and many a
      schoolboy is a better reasoner than he. I knew one about eight
      years of age, whose success at guessing in the game of ‘even and
      odd’ attracted universal admiration. This game is simple, and is
      played with marbles. One player holds in his hand a number of
      these toys, and demands of another whether that number is even or
      odd. If the guess is right, the guesser wins one; if wrong, he
      loses one. The boy to whom I allude won all the marbles of the
      school. Of course he had some principle of guessing; and this lay
      in mere observation and admeasurement of the astuteness of his
      opponents. For example, an arrant simpleton is his opponent, and,
      holding up his closed hand, asks, ‘are they even or odd?’ Our
      schoolboy replies, ‘odd,’ and loses; but upon the second trial he
      wins, for he then says to himself, ‘the simpleton had them even
      upon the first trial, and his amount of cunning is just
      sufficient to make him have them odd upon the second; I will
      therefore guess odd;’—he guesses odd, and wins. Now, with a
      simpleton a degree above the first, he would have reasoned thus:
      ‘This fellow finds that in the first instance I guessed odd, and,
      in the second, he will propose to himself, upon the first
      impulse, a simple variation from even to odd, as did the first
      simpleton; but then a second thought will suggest that this is
      too simple a variation, and finally he will decide upon putting
      it even as before. I will therefore guess even;’—he guesses even,
      and wins. Now this mode of reasoning in the schoolboy, whom his
      fellows termed ‘lucky,’—what, in its last analysis, is it?”

“It is merely,” I said, “an identification of the reasoner’s
      intellect with that of his opponent.”

“It is,” said Dupin; “and, upon inquiring of the boy by what
      means he effected the thorough identification in which his
      success consisted, I received answer as follows: ‘When I wish to
      find out how wise, or how stupid, or how good, or how wicked is
      any one, or what are his thoughts at the moment, I fashion the
      expression of my face, as accurately as possible, in accordance
      with the expression of his, and then wait to see what thoughts or
      sentiments arise in my mind or heart, as if to match or
      correspond with the expression.’ This response of the schoolboy
      lies at the bottom of all the spurious profundity which has been
      attributed to Rochefoucault, to La Bougive, to Machiavelli, and
      to Campanella.”