“For its practical value it depends upon this,” replied Dupin;
      “and the Prefect and his cohort fail so frequently, first, by
      default of this identification, and, secondly, by
      ill-admeasurement, or rather through non-admeasurement, of the
      intellect with which they are engaged. They consider only their
      own ideas of ingenuity; and, in searching for anything hidden,
      advert only to the modes in which they would have hidden it. They
      are right in this much—that their own ingenuity is a faithful
      representative of that of the mass; but when the cunning of the
      individual felon is diverse in character from their own, the
      felon foils them, of course. This always happens when it is above
      their own, and very usually when it is below. They have no
      variation of principle in their investigations; at best, when
      urged by some unusual emergency—by some extraordinary reward—they
      extend or exaggerate their old modes of practice, without
      touching their principles. What, for example, in this case of
      D——, has been done to vary the principle of action? What is all
      this boring, and probing, and sounding, and scrutinizing with the
      microscope and dividing the surface of the building into
      registered square inches—what is it all but an exaggeration of
      the application of the one principle or set of principles of
      search, which are based upon the one set of notions regarding
      human ingenuity, to which the Prefect, in the long routine of his
      duty, has been accustomed? Do you not see he has taken it for
      granted that all men proceed to conceal a letter,—not exactly in
      a gimlet hole bored in a chair-leg—but, at least, in some
      out-of-the-way hole or corner suggested by the same tenor of
      thought which would urge a man to secrete a letter in a
      gimlet-hole bored in a chair-leg? And do you not see also, that
      such recherchés nooks for concealment are adapted only for
      ordinary occasions, and would be adopted only by ordinary
      intellects; for, in all cases of concealment, a disposal of the
      article concealed—a disposal of it in this recherché manner,—is,
      in the very first instance, presumable and presumed; and thus its
      discovery depends, not at all upon the acumen, but altogether
      upon the mere care, patience, and determination of the seekers;
      and where the case is of importance—or, what amounts to the same
      thing in the political eyes, when the reward is of magnitude,—the
      qualities in question have never been known to fail. You will now
      understand what I meant in suggesting that, had the purloined
      letter been hidden any where within the limits of the Prefect’s
      examination—in other words, had the principle of its concealment
      been comprehended within the principles of the Prefect—its
      discovery would have been a matter altogether beyond question. This functionary, however, has been thoroughly mystified; and the
      remote source of his defeat lies in the supposition that the
      Minister is a fool, because he has acquired renown as a poet.