“I dispute the availability, and thus the value, of that reason
      which is cultivated in any especial form other than the
      and quantity; mathematical reasoning is merely logic applied to
      observation upon form and quantity. The great error lies in
      supposing that even the truths of what is called pure algebra,
      are abstract or general truths. And this error is so egregious
      that I am confounded at the universality with which it has been
      received. Mathematical axioms are not axioms of general truth.
      What is true of relation—of form and quantity—is often grossly
      false in regard to morals, for example. In this latter science it
      is very usually untrue that the aggregated parts are equal to the
      whole. In chemistry also the axiom fails. In the consideration of
      motive it fails; for two motives, each of a given value, have
      not, necessarily, a value when united, equal to the sum of their
      values apart. There are numerous other mathematical truths which
      are only truths within the limits of relation. But the
      mathematician argues, from his finite truths, through habit, as
      if they were of an absolutely general applicability—as the world
      indeed imagines them to be. Bryant, in his very learned
      ‘Mythology,’ mentions an analogous source of error, when he says
      that ‘although the Pagan fables are not believed, yet we forget
      ourselves continually, and make inferences from them as existing
      realities.’ With the algebraists, however, who are Pagans
      themselves, the ‘Pagan fables’ are believed, and the inferences
      are made, not so much through lapse of memory, as through an
      unaccountable addling of the brains. In short, I never yet
      encountered the mere mathematician who could be trusted out of
      equal roots, or one who did not clandestinely hold it as a point
      of his faith that x2+px was absolutely and unconditionally equal
      to q. Say to one of these gentlemen, by way of experiment, if you
      please, that you believe occasions may occur where x2+px is not
      altogether equal to q, and, having made him understand what you
      mean, get out of his reach as speedily as convenient, for, beyond
      doubt, he will endeavor to knock you down.