“I mean to say,” continued Dupin, while I merely laughed at his
      last observations, “that if the Minister had been no more than a
      mathematician, the Prefect would have been under no necessity of
      giving me this check. I know him, however, as both mathematician
      and poet, and my measures were adapted to his capacity, with
      reference to the circumstances by which he was surrounded. I knew
      him as a courtier, too, and as a bold intriguant. Such a man, I
      considered, could not fail to be aware of the ordinary policial
      modes of action. He could not have failed to anticipate—and
      events have proved that he did not fail to anticipate—the
      waylayings to which he was subjected. He must have foreseen, I
      reflected, the secret investigations of his premises. His
      frequent absences from home at night, which were hailed by the
      Prefect as certain aids to his success, I regarded only as ruses,
      to afford opportunity for thorough search to the police, and thus
      the sooner to impress them with the conviction to which G——, in
      fact, did finally arrive—the conviction that the letter was not
      upon the premises. I felt, also, that the whole train of thought,
      which I was at some pains in detailing to you just now,
      concerning the invariable principle of policial action in
      searches for articles concealed—I felt that this whole train of
      thought would necessarily pass through the mind of the Minister.
      It would imperatively lead him to despise all the ordinary nooks
      of concealment. He could not, I reflected, be so weak as not to
      see that the most intricate and remote recess of his hotel would
      be as open as his commonest closets to the eyes, to the probes,
      to the gimlets, and to the microscopes of the Prefect. I saw, in
      fine, that he would be driven, as a matter of course, to
      simplicity, if not deliberately induced to it as a matter of
      choice. You will remember, perhaps, how desperately the Prefect
      laughed when I suggested, upon our first interview, that it was
      just possible this mystery troubled him so much on account of its
      being so very self-evident.”

“Yes,” said I, “I remember his merriment well. I really thought
      he would have fallen into convulsions.”