“The material world,” continued Dupin, “abounds with very strict
      analogies to the immaterial; and thus some color of truth has
      been given to the rhetorical dogma, that metaphor, or simile, may
      be made to strengthen an argument, as well as to embellish a
      description. The principle of the vis inertiæ, for example, seems
      to be identical in physics and metaphysics. It is not more true
      in the former, that a large body is with more difficulty set in
      motion than a smaller one, and that its subsequent momentum is
      commensurate with this difficulty, than it is, in the latter,
      that intellects of the vaster capacity, while more forcible, more
      constant, and more eventful in their movements than those of
      inferior grade, are yet the less readily moved, and more
      embarrassed and full of hesitation in the first few steps of
      their progress. Again: have you ever noticed which of the street
      signs, over the shop-doors, are the most attractive of
      attention?”

“I have never given the matter a thought,” I said.

“There is a game of puzzles,” he resumed, “which is played upon a
      map. One party playing requires another to find a given word—the
      name of town, river, state or empire—any word, in short, upon the
      motley and perplexed surface of the chart. A novice in the game
      generally seeks to embarrass his opponents by giving them the
      most minutely lettered names; but the adept selects such words as
      stretch, in large characters, from one end of the chart to the
      other. These, like the over-largely lettered signs and placards
      of the street, escape observation by dint of being excessively
      obvious; and here the physical oversight is precisely analogous
      with the moral inapprehension by which the intellect suffers to
      pass unnoticed those considerations which are too obtrusively and
      too palpably self-evident. But this is a point, it appears,
      somewhat above or beneath the understanding of the Prefect. He
      never once thought it probable, or possible, that the Minister
      had deposited the letter immediately beneath the nose of the
      whole world, by way of best preventing any portion of that world
      from perceiving it.

“But the more I reflected upon the daring, dashing, and
      discriminating ingenuity of D——; upon the fact that the document
      must always have been at hand, if he intended to use it to good
      purpose; and upon the decisive evidence, obtained by the Prefect,
      that it was not hidden within the limits of that dignitary’s
      ordinary search—the more satisfied I became that, to conceal this
      letter, the Minister had resorted to the comprehensive and
      sagacious expedient of not attempting to conceal it at all.

“Full of these ideas, I prepared myself with a pair of green
      spectacles, and called one fine morning, quite by accident, at
      the Ministerial hotel. I found D—— at home, yawning, lounging,
      and dawdling, as usual, and pretending to be in the last
      extremity of ennui. He is, perhaps, the most really energetic
      human being now alive—but that is only when nobody sees him.