“To be even with him, I complained of my weak eyes, and lamented
      the necessity of the spectacles, under cover of which I
      cautiously and thoroughly surveyed the whole apartment, while
      seemingly intent only upon the conversation of my host.

“I paid especial attention to a large writing-table near which he
      sat, and upon which lay confusedly, some miscellaneous letters
      and other papers, with one or two musical instruments and a few
      books. Here, however, after a long and very deliberate scrutiny,
      I saw nothing to excite particular suspicion.

“At length my eyes, in going the circuit of the room, fell upon a
      trumpery fillagree card-rack of pasteboard, that hung dangling by
      a dirty blue ribbon, from a little brass knob just beneath the
      middle of the mantel-piece. In this rack, which had three or four
      compartments, were five or six visiting cards and a solitary
      letter. This last was much soiled and crumpled. It was torn
      nearly in two, across the middle—as if a design, in the first
      instance, to tear it entirely up as worthless, had been altered,
      or stayed, in the second. It had a large black seal, bearing the
      D—— cipher _very_ conspicuously, and was addressed, in a
      diminutive female hand, to D——, the minister, himself. It was
      thrust carelessly, and even, as it seemed, contemptuously, into
      one of the uppermost divisions of the rack.

“No sooner had I glanced at this letter, than I concluded it to
      be that of which I was in search. To be sure, it was, to all
      appearance, radically different from the one of which the Prefect
      had read us so minute a description. Here the seal was large and
      black, with the D—— cipher; there it was small and red, with the
      ducal arms of the S—— family. Here, the address, to the Minister,
      diminutive and feminine; there the superscription, to a certain
      royal personage, was markedly bold and decided; the size alone
      formed a point of correspondence. But, then, the radicalness of
      these differences, which was excessive; the dirt; the soiled and
      torn condition of the paper, so inconsistent with the true
      methodical habits of D——, and so suggestive of a design to delude
      the beholder into an idea of the worthlessness of the
      document—these things, together with the hyper-obtrusive
      situation of this document, full in the view of every visitor,
      and thus exactly in accordance with the conclusions to which I
      had previously arrived; these things, I say, were strongly
      corroborative of suspicion, in one who came with the intention to
      suspect.