“I protracted my visit as long as possible, and, while I
      maintained a most animated discussion with the Minister upon a
      topic which I knew well had never failed to interest and excite
      him, I kept my attention really riveted upon the letter. In this
      examination, I committed to memory its external appearance and
      arrangement in the rack; and also fell, at length, upon a
      discovery which set at rest whatever trivial doubt I might have
      entertained. In scrutinizing the edges of the paper, I observed
      them to be more chafed than seemed necessary. They presented the
      broken appearance which is manifested when a stiff paper, having
      been once folded and pressed with a folder, is refolded in a
      reversed direction, in the same creases or edges which had formed
      the original fold. This discovery was sufficient. It was clear to
      me that the letter had been turned, as a glove, inside out,
      re-directed, and re-sealed. I bade the Minister good morning, and
      took my departure at once, leaving a gold snuff-box upon the
      table.

“The next morning I called for the snuff-box, when we resumed,
      quite eagerly, the conversation of the preceding day. While thus
      engaged, however, a loud report, as if of a pistol, was heard
      mob. D—— rushed to a casement, threw it open, and looked out. In
      the meantime, I stepped to the card-rack, took the letter, put it
      in my pocket, and replaced it by a fac-simile, (so far as regards
      externals,) which I had carefully prepared at my
      lodgings—imitating the D—— cipher, very readily, by means of a
      seal formed of bread.

“The disturbance in the street had been occasioned by the frantic
      behavior of a man with a musket. He had fired it among a crowd of
      women and children. It proved, however, to have been without
      ball, and the fellow was suffered to go his way as a lunatic or a
      drunkard. When he had gone, D—— came from the window, whither I
      had followed him immediately upon securing the object in view.
      Soon afterwards I bade him farewell. The pretended lunatic was a
      man in my own pay.”

“But what purpose had you,” I asked, “in replacing the letter by
      a fac-simile? Would it not have been better, at the first visit,
      to have seized it openly, and departed?”