“D——,” replied Dupin, “is a desperate man, and a man of nerve.
      His hotel, too, is not without attendants devoted to his
      interests. Had I made the wild attempt you suggest, I might never
      have left the Ministerial presence alive. The good people of
      Paris might have heard of me no more. But I had an object apart
      from these considerations. You know my political prepossessions.
      In this matter, I act as a partisan of the lady concerned. For
      eighteen months the Minister has had her in his power. She has
      now him in hers—since, being unaware that the letter is not in
      his possession, he will proceed with his exactions as if it was.
      Thus will he inevitably commit himself, at once, to his political
      destruction. His downfall, too, will not be more precipitate than
      awkward. It is all very well to talk about the facilis descensus
      Averni; but in all kinds of climbing, as Catalani said of
      singing, it is far more easy to get up than to come down. In the
      present instance I have no sympathy—at least no pity—for him who
      descends. He is that monstrum horrendum, an unprincipled man of
      genius. I confess, however, that I should like very well to know
      the precise character of his thoughts, when, being defied by her
      whom the Prefect terms ‘a certain personage’ he is reduced to
      opening the letter which I left for him in the card-rack.”

“How? did you put any thing particular in it?”

“Why—it did not seem altogether right to leave the interior
      blank—that would have been insulting. D——, at Vienna once, did me
      an evil turn, which I told him, quite good-humoredly, that I
      should remember. So, as I knew he would feel some curiosity in
      regard to the identity of the person who had outwitted him, I
      thought it a pity not to give him a clue. He is well acquainted
      with my MS., and I just copied into the middle of the blank sheet
      the words—

“‘— — Un dessein si funeste,
      S’il n’est digne d’Atrée, est digne de Thyeste.

They are to be found in Crébillon’s ‘Atrée.’”

THE THOUSAND-AND-SECOND TALE OF SCHEHERAZADE

Truth is stranger than fiction.—_Old Saying_

Having had occasion, lately, in the course of some Oriental
      investigations, to consult the Tellmenow Isitsöornot, a work
      which (like the Zohar of Simeon Jochaides) is scarcely known at
      all, even in Europe; and which has never been quoted, to my
      knowledge, by any American—if we except, perhaps, the author of
      the “Curiosities of American Literature”;—having had occasion, I
      say, to turn over some pages of the first-mentioned very
      remarkable work, I was not a little astonished to discover that
      the literary world has hitherto been strangely in error
      respecting the fate of the vizier’s daughter, Scheherazade, as
      that fate is depicted in the “Arabian Nights”; and that the
      _dénouement_ there given, if not altogether inaccurate, as far as
      it goes, is at least to blame in not having gone very much
      farther.