“‘Having deposited the packages upon the sands, we sat down
      beneath some trees, and looked out into the ocean in the hope of
      perceiving a ship, but during several hours we saw none whatever.
      At length I fancied that I could hear a singular buzzing or
      humming sound; and the porter, after listening awhile, declared
      that he also could distinguish it. Presently it grew louder, and
      then still louder, so that we could have no doubt that the object
      which caused it was approaching us. At length, on the edge of the
      horizon, we discovered a black speck, which rapidly increased in
      size until we made it out to be a vast monster, swimming with a
      great part of its body above the surface of the sea. It came
      toward us with inconceivable swiftness, throwing up huge waves of
      foam around its breast, and illuminating all that part of the sea
      through which it passed, with a long line of fire that extended
      far off into the distance.

“‘As the thing drew near we saw it very distinctly. Its length
      was equal to that of three of the loftiest trees that grow, and
      it was as wide as the great hall of audience in your palace, O
      most sublime and munificent of the Caliphs. Its body, which was
      unlike that of ordinary fishes, was as solid as a rock, and of a
      jetty blackness throughout all that portion of it which floated
      above the water, with the exception of a narrow blood-red streak
      that completely begirdled it. The belly, which floated beneath
      the surface, and of which we could get only a glimpse now and
      then as the monster rose and fell with the billows, was entirely
      covered with metallic scales, of a color like that of the moon in
      misty weather. The back was flat and nearly white, and from it
      there extended upwards of six spines, about half the length of
      the whole body.

“‘This horrible creature had no mouth that we could perceive;
      but, as if to make up for this deficiency, it was provided with
      at least four score of eyes, that protruded from their sockets
      like those of the green dragon-fly, and were arranged all around
      the body in two rows, one above the other, and parallel to the
      blood-red streak, which seemed to answer the purpose of an
      eyebrow. Two or three of these dreadful eyes were much larger
      than the others, and had the appearance of solid gold.