“‘Washish squashish squeak, Sinbad, hey-diddle diddle, grunt unt
      grumble, hiss, fiss, whiss,’ said he to me, one day after
      dinner—but I beg a thousand pardons, I had forgotten that your
      majesty is not conversant with the dialect of the Cock-neighs (so
      the man-animals were called; I presume because their language
      formed the connecting link between that of the horse and that of
      the rooster). With your permission, I will translate. ‘Washish
      squashish,’ and so forth:—that is to say, ‘I am happy to find, my
      dear Sinbad, that you are really a very excellent fellow; we are
      now about doing a thing which is called circumnavigating the
      globe; and since you are so desirous of seeing the world, I will
      strain a point and give you a free passage upon back of the
      beast.’”

When the Lady Scheherazade had proceeded thus far, relates the
      “Isitsöornot,” the king turned over from his left side to his
      right, and said:

“It is, in fact, very surprising, my dear queen, that you
      omitted, hitherto, these latter adventures of Sinbad. Do you know
      I think them exceedingly entertaining and strange?”

The king having thus expressed himself, we are told, the fair
      Scheherazade resumed her history in the following words:

“Sinbad went on in this manner with his narrative—‘I thanked the
      man-animal for its kindness, and soon found myself very much at
      home on the beast, which swam at a prodigious rate through the
      ocean; although the surface of the latter is, in that part of the
      world, by no means flat, but round like a pomegranate, so that we
      went—so to say—either up hill or down hill all the time.’

“That I think, was very singular,” interrupted the king.

“Nevertheless, it is quite true,” replied Scheherazade.

“I have my doubts,” rejoined the king; “but, pray, be so good as
      to go on with the story.”

“I will,” said the queen. “‘The beast,’ continued Sinbad to the
      caliph, ‘swam, as I have related, up hill and down hill until, at
      length, we arrived at an island, many hundreds of miles in
      circumference, but which, nevertheless, had been built in the
      middle of the sea by a colony of little things like
      caterpillars.’” (*1)

“Hum!” said the king.

“‘Leaving this island,’ said Sinbad—(for Scheherazade, it must be
      understood, took no notice of her husband’s ill-mannered
      ejaculation) ‘leaving this island, we came to another where the
      forests were of solid stone, and so hard that they shivered to
      pieces the finest-tempered axes with which we endeavoured to cut
      them down.’” (*2)

“Hum!” said the king, again; but Scheherazade, paying him no
      attention, continued in the language of Sinbad.