“‘No sooner had we got rid of these birds, which occasioned us
      great annoyance, than we were terrified by the appearance of a
      fowl of another kind, and infinitely larger than even the rocs
      which I met in my former voyages; for it was bigger than the
      biggest of the domes on your seraglio, oh, most Munificent of
      Caliphs. This terrible fowl had no head that we could perceive,
      but was fashioned entirely of belly, which was of a prodigious
      fatness and roundness, of a soft-looking substance, smooth,
      shining and striped with various colors. In its talons, the
      monster was bearing away to his eyrie in the heavens, a house
      from which it had knocked off the roof, and in the interior of
      which we distinctly saw human beings, who, beyond doubt, were in
      a state of frightful despair at the horrible fate which awaited
      them. We shouted with all our might, in the hope of frightening
      the bird into letting go of its prey, but it merely gave a snort
      or puff, as if of rage and then let fall upon our heads a heavy
      sack which proved to be filled with sand!’”

“Stuff!” said the king.

“‘It was just after this adventure that we encountered a
      continent of immense extent and prodigious solidity, but which,
      nevertheless, was supported entirely upon the back of a sky-blue
      cow that had no fewer than four hundred horns.’” (*18)

“That, now, I believe,” said the king, “because I have read
      something of the kind before, in a book.”

“‘We passed immediately beneath this continent, (swimming in
      between the legs of the cow), and, after some hours, found
      ourselves in a wonderful country indeed, which, I was informed by
      the man-animal, was his own native land, inhabited by things of
      his own species. This elevated the man-animal very much in my
      esteem, and in fact, I now began to feel ashamed of the
      contemptuous familiarity with which I had treated him; for I
      found that the man-animals in general were a nation of the most
      powerful magicians, who lived with worms in their brain, (*19)
      which, no doubt, served to stimulate them by their painful
      writhings and wrigglings to the most miraculous efforts of
      imagination!’”

“Nonsense!” said the king.

“‘Among the magicians, were domesticated several animals of very
      singular kinds; for example, there was a huge horse whose bones
      were iron and whose blood was boiling water. In place of corn, he
      had black stones for his usual food; and yet, in spite of so hard
      a diet, he was so strong and swift that he would drag a load more
      weighty than the grandest temple in this city, at a rate
      surpassing that of the flight of most birds.’” (*20)

“Twattle!” said the king.