“‘I saw, also, among these people a hen without feathers, but
      bigger than a camel; instead of flesh and bone she had iron and
      brick; her blood, like that of the horse, (to whom, in fact, she
      was nearly related,) was boiling water; and like him she ate
      nothing but wood or black stones. This hen brought forth very
      frequently, a hundred chickens in the day; and, after birth, they
      took up their residence for several weeks within the stomach of
      their mother.’” (*21)

“Fal lal!” said the king.

“‘One of this nation of mighty conjurors created a man out of
      brass and wood, and leather, and endowed him with such ingenuity
      that he would have beaten at chess, all the race of mankind with
      the exception of the great Caliph, Haroun Alraschid. (*22)
      Another of these magi constructed (of like material) a creature
      that put to shame even the genius of him who made it; for so
      great were its reasoning powers that, in a second, it performed
      calculations of so vast an extent that they would have required
      the united labor of fifty thousand fleshy men for a year. (*23)
      But a still more wonderful conjuror fashioned for himself a
      mighty thing that was neither man nor beast, but which had brains
      of lead, intermixed with a black matter like pitch, and fingers
      that it employed with such incredible speed and dexterity that it
      would have had no trouble in writing out twenty thousand copies
      of the Koran in an hour, and this with so exquisite a precision,
      that in all the copies there should not be found one to vary from
      another by the breadth of the finest hair. This thing was of
      prodigious strength, so that it erected or overthrew the
      mightiest empires at a breath; but its powers were exercised
      equally for evil and for good.’”

“Ridiculous!” said the king.

“‘Among this nation of necromancers there was also one who had in
      his veins the blood of the salamanders; for he made no scruple of
      sitting down to smoke his chibouc in a red-hot oven until his
      dinner was thoroughly roasted upon its floor. (*24) Another had
      the faculty of converting the common metals into gold, without
      even looking at them during the process. (*25) Another had such a
      delicacy of touch that he made a wire so fine as to be invisible.
      (*26) Another had such quickness of perception that he counted
      all the separate motions of an elastic body, while it was
      springing backward and forward at the rate of nine hundred
      millions of times in a second.’” (*27)

“Absurd!” said the king.