“Stop!” said the king—“I can’t stand that, and I won’t. You have
      already given me a dreadful headache with your lies. The day,
      too, I perceive, is beginning to break. How long have we been
      married?—my conscience is getting to be troublesome again. And
      then that dromedary touch—do you take me for a fool? Upon the
      whole, you might as well get up and be throttled.”

These words, as I learn from the “Isitsöornot,” both grieved and
      astonished Scheherazade; but, as she knew the king to be a man of
      scrupulous integrity, and quite unlikely to forfeit his word, she
      submitted to her fate with a good grace. She derived, however,
      great consolation, (during the tightening of the bowstring,) from
      the reflection that much of the history remained still untold,
      and that the petulance of her brute of a husband had reaped for
      him a most righteous reward, in depriving him of many
      inconceivable adventures.

A DESCENT INTO THE MAELSTROM.

The ways of God in Nature, as in Providence, are not as our ways; 
  nor are the models that we frame any way commensurate to the
  vastness, profundity, and unsearchableness of His works, _which have
  a depth in them greater than the well of Democritus_.

—_Joseph Glanville_.

We had now reached the summit of the loftiest crag. For some
      minutes the old man seemed too much exhausted to speak.

“Not long ago,” said he at length, “and I could have guided you
      on this route as well as the youngest of my sons; but, about
      three years past, there happened to me an event such as never
      happened to mortal man—or at least such as no man ever survived
      to tell of—and the six hours of deadly terror which I then
      endured have broken me up body and soul. You suppose me a _very_
      old man—but I am not. It took less than a single day to change
      these hairs from a jetty black to white, to weaken my limbs, and
      to unstring my nerves, so that I tremble at the least exertion,
      and am frightened at a shadow. Do you know I can scarcely look
      over this little cliff without getting giddy?”