The “little cliff,” upon whose edge he had so carelessly thrown
      himself down to rest that the weightier portion of his body hung
      over it, while he was only kept from falling by the tenure of his
      elbow on its extreme and slippery edge—this “little cliff” arose,
      a sheer unobstructed precipice of black shining rock, some
      fifteen or sixteen hundred feet from the world of crags beneath
      us. Nothing would have tempted me to within half a dozen yards of
      its brink. In truth so deeply was I excited by the perilous
      position of my companion, that I fell at full length upon the
      ground, clung to the shrubs around me, and dared not even glance
      upward at the sky—while I struggled in vain to divest myself of
      the idea that the very foundations of the mountain were in danger
      from the fury of the winds. It was long before I could reason
      myself into sufficient courage to sit up and look out into the
      distance.

“You must get over these fancies,” said the guide, “for I have
      brought you here that you might have the best possible view of
      the scene of that event I mentioned—and to tell you the whole
      story with the spot just under your eye.”

“We are now,” he continued, in that particularizing manner which
      distinguished him—“we are now close upon the Norwegian coast—in
      the sixty-eighth degree of latitude—in the great province of
      Nordland—and in the dreary district of Lofoden. The mountain upon
      whose top we sit is Helseggen, the Cloudy. Now raise yourself up
      a little higher—hold on to the grass if you feel giddy—so—and
      look out, beyond the belt of vapor beneath us, into the sea.”

I looked dizzily, and beheld a wide expanse of ocean, whose
      waters wore so inky a hue as to bring at once to my mind the
      Nubian geographer’s account of the _Mare Tenebrarum_. A panorama
      more deplorably desolate no human imagination can conceive. To
      the right and left, as far as the eye could reach, there lay
      outstretched, like ramparts of the world, lines of horridly black
      and beetling cliff, whose character of gloom was but the more
      forcibly illustrated by the surf which reared high up against its
      white and ghastly crest, howling and shrieking forever. Just
      opposite the promontory upon whose apex we were placed, and at a
      distance of some five or six miles out at sea, there was visible
      a small, bleak-looking island; or, more properly, its position
      was discernible through the wilderness of surge in which it was
      enveloped. About two miles nearer the land, arose another of
      smaller size, hideously craggy and barren, and encompassed at
      various intervals by a cluster of dark rocks.