The appearance of the ocean, in the space between the more
      distant island and the shore, had something very unusual about
      it. Although, at the time, so strong a gale was blowing landward
      that a brig in the remote offing lay to under a double-reefed
      trysail, and constantly plunged her whole hull out of sight,
      still there was here nothing like a regular swell, but only a
      short, quick, angry cross dashing of water in every direction—as
      well in the teeth of the wind as otherwise. Of foam there was
      little except in the immediate vicinity of the rocks.

“The island in the distance,” resumed the old man, “is called by
      the Norwegians Vurrgh. The one midway is Moskoe. That a mile to
      the northward is Ambaaren. Yonder are Islesen, Hotholm,
      Keildhelm, Suarven, and Buckholm. Farther off—between Moskoe and
      Vurrgh—are Otterholm, Flimen, Sandflesen, and Stockholm. These
      are the true names of the places—but why it has been thought
      necessary to name them at all, is more than either you or I can
      understand. Do you hear anything? Do you see any change in the
      water?”

We had now been about ten minutes upon the top of Helseggen, to
      which we had ascended from the interior of Lofoden, so that we
      had caught no glimpse of the sea until it had burst upon us from
      the summit. As the old man spoke, I became aware of a loud and
      gradually increasing sound, like the moaning of a vast herd of
      buffaloes upon an American prairie; and at the same moment I
      perceived that what seamen term the _chopping_ character of the
      ocean beneath us, was rapidly changing into a current which set
      to the eastward. Even while I gazed, this current acquired a
      monstrous velocity. Each moment added to its speed—to its
      headlong impetuosity. In five minutes the whole sea, as far as
      Vurrgh, was lashed into ungovernable fury; but it was between
      Moskoe and the coast that the main uproar held its sway. Here the
      vast bed of the waters, seamed and scarred into a thousand
      conflicting channels, burst suddenly into phrensied
      convulsion—heaving, boiling, hissing—gyrating in gigantic and
      innumerable vortices, and all whirling and plunging on to the
      eastward with a rapidity which water never elsewhere assumes
      except in precipitous descents.