In a few minutes more, there came over the scene another radical
      alteration. The general surface grew somewhat more smooth, and
      the whirlpools, one by one, disappeared, while prodigious streaks
      of foam became apparent where none had been seen before. These
      streaks, at length, spreading out to a great distance, and
      entering into combination, took unto themselves the gyratory
      motion of the subsided vortices, and seemed to form the germ of
      another more vast. Suddenly—very suddenly—this assumed a distinct
      and definite existence, in a circle of more than a mile in
      diameter. The edge of the whirl was represented by a broad belt
      of gleaming spray; but no particle of this slipped into the mouth
      of the terrific funnel, whose interior, as far as the eye could
      fathom it, was a smooth, shining, and jet-black wall of water,
      inclined to the horizon at an angle of some forty-five degrees,
      speeding dizzily round and round with a swaying and sweltering
      motion, and sending forth to the winds an appalling voice, half
      shriek, half roar, such as not even the mighty cataract of
      Niagara ever lifts up in its agony to Heaven.

The mountain trembled to its very base, and the rock rocked. I
      threw myself upon my face, and clung to the scant herbage in an
      excess of nervous agitation.

“This,” said I at length, to the old man—“this _can_ be nothing
      else than the great whirlpool of the Maelström.”

“So it is sometimes termed,” said he. “We Norwegians call it the
      Moskoe-ström, from the island of Moskoe in the midway.”

The ordinary accounts of this vortex had by no means prepared me
      for what I saw. That of Jonas Ramus, which is perhaps the most
      circumstantial of any, cannot impart the faintest conception
      either of the magnificence, or of the horror of the scene—or of
      the wild bewildering sense of _the novel_ which confounds the
      beholder. I am not sure from what point of view the writer in
      question surveyed it, nor at what time; but it could neither have
      been from the summit of Helseggen, nor during a storm. There are
      some passages of his description, nevertheless, which may be
      quoted for their details, although their effect is exceedingly
      feeble in conveying an impression of the spectacle.