“Between Lofoden and Moskoe,” he says, “the depth of the water is
      between thirty-six and forty fathoms; but on the other side,
      toward Ver (Vurrgh) this depth decreases so as not to afford a
      convenient passage for a vessel, without the risk of splitting on
      the rocks, which happens even in the calmest weather. When it is
      flood, the stream runs up the country between Lofoden and Moskoe
      with a boisterous rapidity; but the roar of its impetuous ebb to
      the sea is scarce equalled by the loudest and most dreadful
      cataracts; the noise being heard several leagues off, and the
      vortices or pits are of such an extent and depth, that if a ship
      comes within its attraction, it is inevitably absorbed and
      carried down to the bottom, and there beat to pieces against the
      rocks; and when the water relaxes, the fragments thereof are
      thrown up again. But these intervals of tranquility are only at
      the turn of the ebb and flood, and in calm weather, and last but
      a quarter of an hour, its violence gradually returning. When the
      stream is most boisterous, and its fury heightened by a storm, it
      is dangerous to come within a Norway mile of it. Boats, yachts,
      and ships have been carried away by not guarding against it
      before they were within its reach. It likewise happens
      frequently, that whales come too near the stream, and are
      overpowered by its violence; and then it is impossible to
      describe their howlings and bellowings in their fruitless
      struggles to disengage themselves. A bear once, attempting to
      swim from Lofoden to Moskoe, was caught by the stream and borne
      down, while he roared terribly, so as to be heard on shore. Large
      stocks of firs and pine trees, after being absorbed by the
      current, rise again broken and torn to such a degree as if
      bristles grew upon them. This plainly shows the bottom to consist
      of craggy rocks, among which they are whirled to and fro. This
      stream is regulated by the flux and reflux of the sea—it being
      constantly high and low water every six hours. In the year 1645,
      early in the morning of Sexagesima Sunday, it raged with such
      noise and impetuosity that the very stones of the houses on the
      coast fell to the ground.”