In regard to the depth of the water, I could not see how this
      could have been ascertained at all in the immediate vicinity of
      the vortex. The “forty fathoms” must have reference only to
      portions of the channel close upon the shore either of Moskoe or
      Lofoden. The depth in the centre of the Moskoe-ström must be
      immeasurably greater; and no better proof of this fact is
      necessary than can be obtained from even the sidelong glance into
      the abyss of the whirl which may be had from the highest crag of
      Helseggen. Looking down from this pinnacle upon the howling
      Phlegethon below, I could not help smiling at the simplicity with
      which the honest Jonas Ramus records, as a matter difficult of
      belief, the anecdotes of the whales and the bears; for it
      appeared to me, in fact, a self-evident thing, that the largest
      ship of the line in existence, coming within the influence of
      that deadly attraction, could resist it as little as a feather
      the hurricane, and must disappear bodily and at once.

The attempts to account for the phenomenon—some of which, I
      remember, seemed to me sufficiently plausible in perusal—now wore
      a very different and unsatisfactory aspect. The idea generally
      received is that this, as well as three smaller vortices among
      the Ferroe islands, “have no other cause than the collision of
      waves rising and falling, at flux and reflux, against a ridge of
      rocks and shelves, which confines the water so that it
      precipitates itself like a cataract; and thus the higher the
      flood rises, the deeper must the fall be, and the natural result
      of all is a whirlpool or vortex, the prodigious suction of which
      is sufficiently known by lesser experiments.”—These are the words
      of the Encyclopædia Britannica. Kircher and others imagine that
      in the centre of the channel of the Maelström is an abyss
      penetrating the globe, and issuing in some very remote part—the
      Gulf of Bothnia being somewhat decidedly named in one instance.
      This opinion, idle in itself, was the one to which, as I gazed,
      my imagination most readily assented; and, mentioning it to the
      guide, I was rather surprised to hear him say that, although it
      was the view almost universally entertained of the subject by the
      Norwegians, it nevertheless was not his own. As to the former
      notion he confessed his inability to comprehend it; and here I
      agreed with him—for, however conclusive on paper, it becomes
      altogether unintelligible, and even absurd, amid the thunder of
      the abyss.

“You have had a good look at the whirl now,” said the old man,
      “and if you will creep round this crag, so as to get in its lee,
      and deaden the roar of the water, I will tell you a story that
      will convince you I ought to know something of the Moskoe-ström.”

I placed myself as desired, and he proceeded.