“Myself and my two brothers once owned a schooner-rigged smack of
      about seventy tons burthen, with which we were in the habit of
      fishing among the islands beyond Moskoe, nearly to Vurrgh. In all
      violent eddies at sea there is good fishing, at proper
      opportunities, if one has only the courage to attempt it; but
      among the whole of the Lofoden coastmen, we three were the only
      ones who made a regular business of going out to the islands, as
      I tell you. The usual grounds are a great way lower down to the
      southward. There fish can be got at all hours, without much risk,
      and therefore these places are preferred. The choice spots over
      here among the rocks, however, not only yield the finest variety,
      but in far greater abundance; so that we often got in a single
      day, what the more timid of the craft could not scrape together
      in a week. In fact, we made it a matter of desperate
      speculation—the risk of life standing instead of labor, and
      courage answering for capital.

“We kept the smack in a cove about five miles higher up the coast
      than this; and it was our practice, in fine weather, to take
      advantage of the fifteen minutes’ slack to push across the main
      channel of the Moskoe-ström, far above the pool, and then drop
      down upon anchorage somewhere near Otterholm, or Sandflesen,
      where the eddies are not so violent as elsewhere. Here we used to
      remain until nearly time for slack-water again, when we weighed
      and made for home. We never set out upon this expedition without
      a steady side wind for going and coming—one that we felt sure
      would not fail us before our return—and we seldom made a
      mis-calculation upon this point. Twice, during six years, we were
      forced to stay all night at anchor on account of a dead calm,
      which is a rare thing indeed just about here; and once we had to
      remain on the grounds nearly a week, starving to death, owing to
      a gale which blew up shortly after our arrival, and made the
      channel too boisterous to be thought of. Upon this occasion we
      should have been driven out to sea in spite of everything, (for
      the whirlpools threw us round and round so violently, that, at
      length, we fouled our anchor and dragged it) if it had not been
      that we drifted into one of the innumerable cross currents—here
      to-day and gone to-morrow—which drove us under the lee of Flimen,
      where, by good luck, we brought up.