“I could not tell you the twentieth part of the difficulties we
      encountered ‘on the grounds’—it is a bad spot to be in, even in
      good weather—but we made shift always to run the gauntlet of the
      Moskoe-ström itself without accident; although at times my heart
      has been in my mouth when we happened to be a minute or so behind
      or before the slack. The wind sometimes was not as strong as we
      thought it at starting, and then we made rather less way than we
      could wish, while the current rendered the smack unmanageable. My
      eldest brother had a son eighteen years old, and I had two stout
      boys of my own. These would have been of great assistance at such
      times, in using the sweeps, as well as afterward in fishing—but,
      somehow, although we ran the risk ourselves, we had not the heart
      to let the young ones get into the danger—for, after all is said
      and done, it _was_ a horrible danger, and that is the truth.

“It is now within a few days of three years since what I am going
      to tell you occurred. It was on the tenth day of July, 18—, a day
      which the people of this part of the world will never forget—for
      it was one in which blew the most terrible hurricane that ever
      came out of the heavens. And yet all the morning, and indeed
      until late in the afternoon, there was a gentle and steady breeze
      from the south-west, while the sun shone brightly, so that the
      oldest seaman among us could not have foreseen what was to
      follow.

“The three of us—my two brothers and myself—had crossed over to
      the islands about two o’clock P. M., and had soon nearly loaded
      the smack with fine fish, which, we all remarked, were more
      plenty that day than we had ever known them. It was just seven,
      _by my watch_, when we weighed and started for home, so as to
      make the worst of the Ström at slack water, which we knew would
      be at eight.

“We set out with a fresh wind on our starboard quarter, and for
      some time spanked along at a great rate, never dreaming of
      danger, for indeed we saw not the slightest reason to apprehend
      it. All at once we were taken aback by a breeze from over
      Helseggen. This was most unusual—something that had never
      happened to us before—and I began to feel a little uneasy,
      without exactly knowing why. We put the boat on the wind, but
      could make no headway at all for the eddies, and I was upon the
      point of proposing to return to the anchorage, when, looking
      astern, we saw the whole horizon covered with a singular
      copper-colored cloud that rose with the most amazing velocity.