“In the meantime the breeze that had headed us off fell away, and
      we were dead becalmed, drifting about in every direction. This
      state of things, however, did not last long enough to give us
      time to think about it. In less than a minute the storm was upon
      us—in less than two the sky was entirely overcast—and what with
      this and the driving spray, it became suddenly so dark that we
      could not see each other in the smack.

“Such a hurricane as then blew it is folly to attempt describing.
      The oldest seaman in Norway never experienced any thing like it.
      We had let our sails go by the run before it cleverly took us;
      but, at the first puff, both our masts went by the board as if
      they had been sawed off—the mainmast taking with it my youngest
      brother, who had lashed himself to it for safety.

“Our boat was the lightest feather of a thing that ever sat upon
      water. It had a complete flush deck, with only a small hatch near
      the bow, and this hatch it had always been our custom to batten
      down when about to cross the Ström, by way of precaution against
      the chopping seas. But for this circumstance we should have
      foundered at once—for we lay entirely buried for some moments.
      How my elder brother escaped destruction I cannot say, for I
      never had an opportunity of ascertaining. For my part, as soon as
      I had let the foresail run, I threw myself flat on deck, with my
      feet against the narrow gunwale of the bow, and with my hands
      grasping a ring-bolt near the foot of the fore-mast. It was mere
      instinct that prompted me to do this—which was undoubtedly the
      very best thing I could have done—for I was too much flurried to
      think.

“For some moments we were completely deluged, as I say, and all
      this time I held my breath, and clung to the bolt. When I could
      stand it no longer I raised myself upon my knees, still keeping
      hold with my hands, and thus got my head clear. Presently our
      little boat gave herself a shake, just as a dog does in coming
      out of the water, and thus rid herself, in some measure, of the
      seas. I was now trying to get the better of the stupor that had
      come over me, and to collect my senses so as to see what was to
      be done, when I felt somebody grasp my arm. It was my elder
      brother, and my heart leaped for joy, for I had made sure that he
      was overboard—but the next moment all this joy was turned into
      horror—for he put his mouth close to my ear, and screamed out the
      word ‘_Moskoe-ström!_’