“No one ever will know what my feelings were at that moment. I
      shook from head to foot as if I had had the most violent fit of
      the ague. I knew what he meant by that one word well enough—I
      knew what he wished to make me understand. With the wind that now
      drove us on, we were bound for the whirl of the Ström, and
      nothing could save us!

“You perceive that in crossing the Ström _channel_, we always
      went a long way up above the whirl, even in the calmest weather,
      and then had to wait and watch carefully for the slack—but now we
      were driving right upon the pool itself, and in such a hurricane
      as this! ‘To be sure,’ I thought, ‘we shall get there just about
      the slack—there is some little hope in that’—but in the next
      moment I cursed myself for being so great a fool as to dream of
      hope at all. I knew very well that we were doomed, had we been
      ten times a ninety-gun ship.

“By this time the first fury of the tempest had spent itself, or
      perhaps we did not feel it so much, as we scudded before it, but
      at all events the seas, which at first had been kept down by the
      wind, and lay flat and frothing, now got up into absolute
      mountains. A singular change, too, had come over the heavens.
      Around in every direction it was still as black as pitch, but
      nearly overhead there burst out, all at once, a circular rift of
      clear sky—as clear as I ever saw—and of a deep bright blue—and
      through it there blazed forth the full moon with a lustre that I
      never before knew her to wear. She lit up every thing about us
      with the greatest distinctness—but, oh God, what a scene it was
      to light up!

“I now made one or two attempts to speak to my brother—but, in
      some manner which I could not understand, the din had so
      increased that I could not make him hear a single word, although
      I screamed at the top of my voice in his ear. Presently he shook
      his head, looking as pale as death, and held up one of his
      fingers, as if to say _‘listen! ‘_

“At first I could not make out what he meant—but soon a hideous
      thought flashed upon me. I dragged my watch from its fob. It was
      not going. I glanced at its face by the moonlight, and then burst
      into tears as I flung it far away into the ocean. _It had run
      down at seven o’clock! We were behind the time of the slack, and
      the whirl of the Ström was in full fury!_

“When a boat is well built, properly trimmed, and not deep laden,
      the waves in a strong gale, when she is going large, seem always
      to slip from beneath her—which appears very strange to a
      landsman—and this is what is called _riding_, in sea phrase.