“Well, so far we had ridden the swells very cleverly; but
      presently a gigantic sea happened to take us right under the
      counter, and bore us with it as it rose—up—up—as if into the sky.
      I would not have believed that any wave could rise so high. And
      then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge, that made
      me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from some lofty
      mountain-top in a dream. But while we were up I had thrown a
      quick glance around—and that one glance was all sufficient. I saw
      our exact position in an instant. The Moskoe-Ström whirlpool was
      about a quarter of a mile dead ahead—but no more like the
      every-day Moskoe-Ström than the whirl as you now see it, is like
      a mill-race. If I had not known where we were, and what we had to
      expect, I should not have recognised the place at all. As it was,
      I involuntarily closed my eyes in horror. The lids clenched
      themselves together as if in a spasm.

“It could not have been more than two minutes afterward until we
      suddenly felt the waves subside, and were enveloped in foam. The
      boat made a sharp half turn to larboard, and then shot off in its
      new direction like a thunderbolt. At the same moment the roaring
      noise of the water was completely drowned in a kind of shrill
      shriek—such a sound as you might imagine given out by the
      waste-pipes of many thousand steam-vessels, letting off their
      steam all together. We were now in the belt of surf that always
      surrounds the whirl; and I thought, of course, that another
      moment would plunge us into the abyss, down which we could only
      see indistinctly on account of the amazing velocity with which we
      wore borne along. The boat did not seem to sink into the water at
      all, but to skim like an air-bubble upon the surface of the
      surge. Her starboard side was next the whirl, and on the larboard
      arose the world of ocean we had left. It stood like a huge
      writhing wall between us and the horizon.

“It may appear strange, but now, when we were in the very jaws of
      the gulf, I felt more composed than when we were only approaching
      it. Having made up my mind to hope no more, I got rid of a great
      deal of that terror which unmanned me at first. I suppose it was
      despair that strung my nerves.