“How often we made the circuit of the belt it is impossible to
      say. We careered round and round for perhaps an hour, flying
      rather than floating, getting gradually more and more into the
      middle of the surge, and then nearer and nearer to its horrible
      inner edge. All this time I had never let go of the ring-bolt. My
      brother was at the stern, holding on to a small empty water-cask
      which had been securely lashed under the coop of the counter, and
      was the only thing on deck that had not been swept overboard when
      the gale first took us. As we approached the brink of the pit he
      let go his hold upon this, and made for the ring, from which, in
      the agony of his terror, he endeavored to force my hands, as it
      was not large enough to afford us both a secure grasp. I never
      felt deeper grief than when I saw him attempt this act—although I
      knew he was a madman when he did it—a raving maniac through sheer
      fright. I did not care, however, to contest the point with him. I
      knew it could make no difference whether either of us held on at
      all; so I let him have the bolt, and went astern to the cask.
      This there was no great difficulty in doing; for the smack flew
      round steadily enough, and upon an even keel—only swaying to and
      fro, with the immense sweeps and swelters of the whirl. Scarcely
      had I secured myself in my new position, when we gave a wild
      lurch to starboard, and rushed headlong into the abyss. I
      muttered a hurried prayer to God, and thought all was over.

“As I felt the sickening sweep of the descent, I had
      instinctively tightened my hold upon the barrel, and closed my
      eyes. For some seconds I dared not open them—while I expected
      instant destruction, and wondered that I was not already in my
      death-struggles with the water. But moment after moment elapsed.
      I still lived. The sense of falling had ceased; and the motion of
      the vessel seemed much as it had been before, while in the belt
      of foam, with the exception that she now lay more along. I took
      courage, and looked once again upon the scene.

“Never shall I forget the sensations of awe, horror, and
      admiration with which I gazed about me. The boat appeared to be
      hanging, as if by magic, midway down, upon the interior surface
      of a funnel vast in circumference, prodigious in depth, and whose
      perfectly smooth sides might have been mistaken for ebony, but
      for the bewildering rapidity with which they spun around, and for
      the gleaming and ghastly radiance they shot forth, as the rays of
      the full moon, from that circular rift amid the clouds which I
      have already described, streamed in a flood of golden glory along
      the black walls, and far away down into the inmost recesses of
      the abyss.