“It was not a new terror that thus affected me, but the dawn of a
      more exciting _hope_. This hope arose partly from memory, and
      partly from present observation. I called to mind the great
      variety of buoyant matter that strewed the coast of Lofoden,
      most extraordinary way—so chafed and roughened as to have the
      appearance of being stuck full of splinters—but then I distinctly
      recollected that there were _some_ of them which were not
      disfigured at all. Now I could not account for this difference
      except by supposing that the roughened fragments were the only
      ones which had been _completely absorbed_—that the others had
      entered the whirl at so late a period of the tide, or, for some
      reason, had descended so slowly after entering, that they did not
      reach the bottom before the turn of the flood came, or of the
      ebb, as the case might be. I conceived it possible, in either
      instance, that they might thus be whirled up again to the level
      of the ocean, without undergoing the fate of those which had been
      drawn in more early, or absorbed more rapidly. I made, also,
      three important observations. The first was, that, as a general
      rule, the larger the bodies were, the more rapid their
      descent—the second, that, between two masses of equal extent, the
      one spherical, and the other _of any other shape_, the
      superiority in speed of descent was with the sphere—the third,
      that, between two masses of equal size, the one cylindrical, and
      the other of any other shape, the cylinder was absorbed the more
      slowly. Since my escape, I have had several conversations on this
      subject with an old school-master of the district; and it was
      from him that I learned the use of the words ‘cylinder’ and
      ‘sphere.’ He explained to me—although I have forgotten the
      explanation—how what I observed was, in fact, the natural
      consequence of the forms of the floating fragments—and showed me
      how it happened that a cylinder, swimming in a vortex, offered
      more resistance to its suction, and was drawn in with greater
      difficulty than an equally bulky body, of any form whatever. (*1)

“There was one startling circumstance which went a great way in
      enforcing these observations, and rendering me anxious to turn
      them to account, and this was that, at every revolution, we
      passed something like a barrel, or else the yard or the mast of a
      vessel, while many of these things, which had been on our level
      when I first opened my eyes upon the wonders of the whirlpool,
      were now high up above us, and seemed to have moved but little
      from their original station.