“The result was precisely what I had hoped it might be. As it is
      myself who now tell you this tale—as you see that I _did_
      escape—and as you are already in possession of the mode in which
      this escape was effected, and must therefore anticipate all that
      I have farther to say—I will bring my story quickly to
      conclusion. It might have been an hour, or thereabout, after my
      quitting the smack, when, having descended to a vast distance
      beneath me, it made three or four wild gyrations in rapid
      succession, and, bearing my loved brother with it, plunged
      headlong, at once and forever, into the chaos of foam below. The
      barrel to which I was attached sunk very little farther than half
      the distance between the bottom of the gulf and the spot at which
      I leaped overboard, before a great change took place in the
      character of the whirlpool. The slope of the sides of the vast
      funnel became momently less and less steep. The gyrations of the
      whirl grew, gradually, less and less violent. By degrees, the
      froth and the rainbow disappeared, and the bottom of the gulf
      seemed slowly to uprise. The sky was clear, the winds had gone
      down, and the full moon was setting radiantly in the west, when I
      found myself on the surface of the ocean, in full view of the
      shores of Lofoden, and above the spot where the pool of the
      Moskoe-ström _had been_. It was the hour of the slack—but the sea
      still heaved in mountainous waves from the effects of the
      hurricane. I was borne violently into the channel of the Ström,
      and in a few minutes was hurried down the coast into the
      ‘grounds’ of the fishermen. A boat picked me up—exhausted from
      fatigue—and (now that the danger was removed) speechless from the
      memory of its horror. Those who drew me on board were my old
      mates and daily companions—but they knew me no more than they
      would have known a traveller from the spirit-land. My hair which
      had been raven-black the day before, was as white as you see it
      now. They say too that the whole expression of my countenance had
      changed. I told them my story—they did not believe it. I now tell
      it to _you_—and I can scarcely expect you to put more faith in it
      than did the merry fishermen of Lofoden.”

VON KEMPELEN AND HIS DISCOVERY