But to return to the ‘Diary’ of Sir Humphrey Davy. This pamphlet
      was not designed for the public eye, even upon the decease of the
      writer, as any person at all conversant with authorship may
      satisfy himself at once by the slightest inspection of the style.
      At page 13, for example, near the middle, we read, in reference
      to his researches about the protoxide of azote: ‘In less than
      half a minute the respiration being continued, diminished
      gradually and were succeeded by analogous to gentle pressure on
      all the muscles.’ That the respiration was not ‘diminished,’ is
      not only clear by the subsequent context, but by the use of the
      plural, ‘were.’ The sentence, no doubt, was thus intended: ‘In
      less than half a minute, the respiration [being continued, these
      feelings] diminished gradually, and were succeeded by [a
      sensation] analogous to gentle pressure on all the muscles.’ A
      hundred similar instances go to show that the MS. so
      inconsiderately published, was merely a rough note-book, meant
      only for the writer’s own eye, but an inspection of the pamphlet
      will convince almost any thinking person of the truth of my
      suggestion. The fact is, Sir Humphrey Davy was about the last man
      in the world to commit himself on scientific topics. Not only had
      he a more than ordinary dislike to quackery, but he was morbidly
      afraid of appearing empirical; so that, however fully he might
      have been convinced that he was on the right track in the matter
      now in question, he would never have spoken out, until he had
      every thing ready for the most practical demonstration. I verily
      believe that his last moments would have been rendered wretched,
      could he have suspected that his wishes in regard to burning this
      ‘Diary’ (full of crude speculations) would have been unattended
      to; as, it seems, they were. I say ‘his wishes,’ for that he
      meant to include this note-book among the miscellaneous papers
      directed ‘to be burnt,’ I think there can be no manner of doubt.
      Whether it escaped the flames by good fortune or by bad, yet
      remains to be seen. That the passages quoted above, with the
      other similar ones referred to, gave Von Kempelen the hint, I do
      not in the slightest degree question; but I repeat, it yet
      remains to be seen whether this momentous discovery itself
      (momentous under any circumstances) will be of service or
      disservice to mankind at large. That Von Kempelen and his
      immediate friends will reap a rich harvest, it would be folly to
      doubt for a moment. They will scarcely be so weak as not to
      ‘realize,’ in time, by large purchases of houses and land, with
      other property of intrinsic value.