In the brief account of Von Kempelen which appeared in the ‘Home
      Journal,’ and has since been extensively copied, several
      misapprehensions of the German original seem to have been made by
      the translator, who professes to have taken the passage from a
      late number of the Presburg ‘Schnellpost.’ ‘Viele’ has evidently
      been misconceived (as it often is), and what the translator
      renders by ‘sorrows,’ is probably ‘lieden,’ which, in its true
      version, ‘sufferings,’ would give a totally different complexion
      to the whole account; but, of course, much of this is merely
      guess, on my part.

Von Kempelen, however, is by no means ‘a misanthrope,’ in
      appearance, at least, whatever he may be in fact. My acquaintance
      with him was casual altogether; and I am scarcely warranted in
      saying that I know him at all; but to have seen and conversed
      with a man of so _prodigious_ a notoriety as he has attained, or
      _will_ attain in a few days, is not a small matter, as times go.

“The Literary World” speaks of him, confidently, as a native of
      Presburg (misled, perhaps, by the account in “The Home Journal”)
      but I am pleased in being able to state _positively_, since I
      have it from his own lips, that he was born in Utica, in the
      State of New York, although both his parents, I believe, are of
      Presburg descent. The family is connected, in some way, with
      Mäelzel, of Automaton-chess-player memory. In person, he is short
      and stout, with large, _fat_, blue eyes, sandy hair and whiskers,
      a wide but pleasing mouth, fine teeth, and I think a Roman nose.
      There is some defect in one of his feet. His address is frank,
      and his whole manner noticeable for bonhomie. Altogether, he
      looks, speaks, and acts as little like ‘a misanthrope’ as any man
      I ever saw. We were fellow-sojourners for a week about six years
      ago, at Earl’s Hotel, in Providence, Rhode Island; and I presume
      that I conversed with him, at various times, for some three or
      four hours altogether. His principal topics were those of the
      day; and nothing that fell from him led me to suspect his
      scientific attainments. He left the hotel before me, intending to
      go to New York, and thence to Bremen; it was in the latter city
      that his great discovery was first made public; or, rather, it
      was there that he was first suspected of having made it. This is
      about all that I personally know of the now immortal Von
      Kempelen; but I have thought that even these few details would
      have interest for the public.

There can be little question that most of the marvellous rumors
      afloat about this affair are pure inventions, entitled to about
      as much credit as the story of Aladdin’s lamp; and yet, in a case
      of this kind, as in the case of the discoveries in California, it
      is clear that the truth may be stranger than fiction. The
      following anecdote, at least, is so well authenticated, that we
      may receive it implicitly.