Von Kempelen had never been even tolerably well off during his
      residence at Bremen; and often, it was well known, he had been
      put to extreme shifts in order to raise trifling sums. When the
      great excitement occurred about the forgery on the house of
      Gutsmuth & Co., suspicion was directed toward Von Kempelen, on
      account of his having purchased a considerable property in
      Gasperitch Lane, and his refusing, when questioned, to explain
      how he became possessed of the purchase money. He was at length
      arrested, but nothing decisive appearing against him, was in the
      end set at liberty. The police, however, kept a strict watch upon
      his movements, and thus discovered that he left home frequently,
      taking always the same road, and invariably giving his watchers
      the slip in the neighborhood of that labyrinth of narrow and
      crooked passages known by the flash name of the ‘Dondergat.’
      Finally, by dint of great perseverance, they traced him to a
      garret in an old house of seven stories, in an alley called
      Flatzplatz,—and, coming upon him suddenly, found him, as they
      imagined, in the midst of his counterfeiting operations. His
      agitation is represented as so excessive that the officers had
      not the slightest doubt of his guilt. After hand-cuffing him,
      they searched his room, or rather rooms, for it appears he
      occupied all the mansarde.

Opening into the garret where they caught him, was a closet, ten
      feet by eight, fitted up with some chemical apparatus, of which
      the object has not yet been ascertained. In one corner of the
      closet was a very small furnace, with a glowing fire in it, and
      state of fusion, but not reaching up to the aperture of the tube,
      which was close to the brim. The other crucible had some liquid
      in it, which, as the officers entered, seemed to be furiously
      dissipating in vapor. They relate that, on finding himself taken,
      Kempelen seized the crucibles with both hands (which were encased
      in gloves that afterwards turned out to be asbestic), and threw
      the contents on the tiled floor. It was now that they hand-cuffed
      him; and before proceeding to ransack the premises they searched
      his person, but nothing unusual was found about him, excepting a
      paper parcel, in his coat-pocket, containing what was afterward
      ascertained to be a mixture of antimony and some unknown
      substance, in nearly, but not quite, equal proportions. All
      attempts at analyzing the unknown substance have, so far, failed,
      but that it will ultimately be analyzed, is not to be doubted.