Passing out of the closet with their prisoner, the officers went
      through a sort of ante-chamber, in which nothing material was
      found, to the chemist’s sleeping-room. They here rummaged some
      drawers and boxes, but discovered only a few papers, of no
      importance, and some good coin, silver and gold. At length,
      looking under the bed, they saw a large, common hair trunk,
      without hinges, hasp, or lock, and with the top lying carelessly
      across the bottom portion. Upon attempting to draw this trunk out
      from under the bed, they found that, with their united strength
      (there were three of them, all powerful men), they ‘could not
      stir it one inch.’ Much astonished at this, one of them crawled
      under the bed, and looking into the trunk, said:

‘No wonder we couldn’t move it—why it’s full to the brim of old
      bits of brass!’

Putting his feet, now, against the wall so as to get a good
      purchase, and pushing with all his force, while his companions
      pulled with all theirs, the trunk, with much difficulty, was slid
      out from under the bed, and its contents examined. The supposed
      brass with which it was filled was all in small, smooth pieces,
      varying from the size of a pea to that of a dollar; but the
      pieces were irregular in shape, although more or less
      flat-looking, upon the whole, “very much as lead looks when
      thrown upon the ground in a molten state, and there suffered to
      grow cool.” Now, not one of these officers for a moment suspected
      this metal to be anything _but_ brass. The idea of its being
      _gold_ never entered their brains, of course; how _could_ such a
      wild fancy have entered it? And their astonishment may be well
      conceived, when the next day it became known, all over Bremen,
      that the “lot of brass” which they had carted so contemptuously
      to the police office, without putting themselves to the trouble
      of pocketing the smallest scrap, was not only gold—real gold—but
      gold far finer than any employed in coinage—gold, in fact,
      absolutely pure, virgin, without the slightest appreciable alloy.