I need not go over the details of Von Kempelen’s confession (as
      far as it went) and release, for these are familiar to the
      public. That he has actually realized, in spirit and in effect,
      if not to the letter, the old chimaera of the philosopher’s
      stone, no sane person is at liberty to doubt. The opinions of
      Arago are, of course, entitled to the greatest consideration; but
      he is by no means infallible; and what he says of bismuth, in his
      report to the Academy, must be taken _cum grano salis_. The
      simple truth is, that up to this period all analysis has failed;
      and until Von Kempelen chooses to let us have the key to his own
      published enigma, it is more than probable that the matter will
      remain, for years, in statu quo. All that as yet can fairly be
      said to be known is, that ‘Pure gold can be made at will, and
      very readily from lead in connection with certain other
      substances, in kind and in proportions, unknown.’

Speculation, of course, is busy as to the immediate and ultimate
      results of this discovery—a discovery which few thinking persons
      will hesitate in referring to an increased interest in the matter
      of gold generally, by the late developments in California; and
      this reflection brings us inevitably to another—the exceeding
      inopportuneness of Von Kempelen’s analysis. If many were
      prevented from adventuring to California, by the mere
      apprehension that gold would so materially diminish in value, on
      account of its plentifulness in the mines there, as to render the
      speculation of going so far in search of it a doubtful one—what
      impression will be wrought now, upon the minds of those about to
      emigrate, and especially upon the minds of those actually in the
      mineral region, by the announcement of this astounding discovery
      of Von Kempelen? a discovery which declares, in so many words,
      that beyond its intrinsic worth for manufacturing purposes
      (whatever that worth may be), gold now is, or at least soon will
      be (for it cannot be supposed that Von Kempelen can long retain
      his secret), of no greater value than lead, and of far inferior
      value to silver. It is, indeed, exceedingly difficult to
      speculate prospectively upon the consequences of the discovery,
      but one thing may be positively maintained—that the announcement
      of the discovery six months ago would have had material influence
      in regard to the settlement of California.

In Europe, as yet, the most noticeable results have been a rise
      of two hundred per cent. in the price of lead, and nearly
      twenty-five per cent. that of silver.

MESMERIC REVELATION