_V._ Yes; and I now see the confusion of idea. Motion is the
      action of _mind_, not of _thinking_. The unparticled matter, or
      God, in quiescence, is (as nearly as we can conceive it) what men
      call mind. And the power of self-movement (equivalent in effect
      to human volition) is, in the unparticled matter, the result of
      its unity and omniprevalence; _how_ I know not, and now clearly
      see that I shall never know. But the unparticled matter, set in
      motion by a law, or quality, existing within itself, is thinking.

_P._ Can you give me no more precise idea of what you term the
      unparticled matter?

_V._ The matters of which man is cognizant escape the senses in
      gradation. We have, for example, a metal, a piece of wood, a drop
      of water, the atmosphere, a gas, caloric, electricity, the
      luminiferous ether. Now we call all these things matter, and
      embrace all matter in one general definition; but in spite of
      this, there can be no two ideas more essentially distinct than
      that which we attach to a metal, and that which we attach to the
      luminiferous ether. When we reach the latter, we feel an almost
      irresistible inclination to class it with spirit, or with
      nihility. The only consideration which restrains us is our
      conception of its atomic constitution; and here, even, we have to
      seek aid from our notion of an atom, as something possessing in
      infinite minuteness, solidity, palpability, weight. Destroy the
      idea of the atomic constitution and we should no longer be able
      to regard the ether as an entity, or at least as matter. For want
      of a better word we might term it spirit. Take, now, a step
      beyond the luminiferous ether—conceive a matter as much more rare
      than the ether, as this ether is more rare than the metal, and we
      arrive at once (in spite of all the school dogmas) at a unique
      mass—an unparticled matter. For although we may admit infinite
      littleness in the atoms themselves, the infinitude of littleness
      in the spaces between them is an absurdity. There will be a
      point—there will be a degree of rarity, at which, if the atoms
      are sufficiently numerous, the interspaces must vanish, and the
      mass absolutely coalesce. But the consideration of the atomic
      constitution being now taken away, the nature of the mass
      inevitably glides into what we conceive of spirit. It is clear,
      however, that it is as fully matter as before. The truth is, it
      is impossible to conceive spirit, since it is impossible to
      imagine what is not. When we flatter ourselves that we have