_V._ Yes; organs are contrivances by which the individual is
      brought into sensible relation with particular classes and forms
      of matter, to the exclusion of other classes and forms. The
      organs of man are adapted to his rudimental condition, and to
      that only; his ultimate condition, being unorganized, is of
      unlimited comprehension in all points but one—the nature of the
      volition of God—that is to say, the motion of the unparticled
      matter. You will have a distinct idea of the ultimate body by
      conceiving it to be entire brain. This it is _not_; but a
      conception of this nature will bring you near a comprehension of
      what it _is_. A luminous body imparts vibration to the
      luminiferous ether. The vibrations generate similar ones within
      the retina; these again communicate similar ones to the optic
      nerve. The nerve conveys similar ones to the brain; the brain,
      also, similar ones to the unparticled matter which permeates it.
      The motion of this latter is thought, of which perception is the
      first undulation. This is the mode by which the mind of the
      rudimental life communicates with the external world; and this
      external world is, to the rudimental life, limited, through the
      idiosyncrasy of its organs. But in the ultimate, unorganized
      life, the external world reaches the whole body, (which is of a
      substance having affinity to brain, as I have said,) with no
      other intervention than that of an infinitely rarer ether than
      even the luminiferous; and to this ether—in unison with it—the
      whole body vibrates, setting in motion the unparticled matter
      which permeates it. It is to the absence of idiosyncratic organs,
      therefore, that we must attribute the nearly unlimited perception
      of the ultimate life. To rudimental beings, organs are the cages
      necessary to confine them until fledged.

_P._ You speak of rudimental “beings.” Are there other rudimental
      thinking beings than man?

_V._ The multitudinous conglomeration of rare matter into nebulæ,
      planets, suns, and other bodies which are neither nebulæ, suns,
      nor planets, is for the sole purpose of supplying _pabulum_ for
      the idiosyncrasy of the organs of an infinity of rudimental
      beings. But for the necessity of the rudimental, prior to the
      ultimate life, there would have been no bodies such as these.
      Each of these is tenanted by a distinct variety of organic,
      rudimental, thinking creatures. In all, the organs vary with the
      features of the place tenanted. At death, or metamorphosis, these
      creatures, enjoying the ultimate life—immortality—and cognizant
      sole palpabilities, and for the accommodation of which we blindly
      deem space created—but that SPACE itself—that infinity of which
      the truly substantive vastness swallows up the
      star-shadows—blotting them out as non-entities from the
      perception of the angels.

_P._ You say that “but for the _necessity_ of the rudimental
      life” there would have been no stars. But why this necessity?

_V._ In the inorganic life, as well as in the inorganic matter
      generally, there is nothing to impede the action of one simple
      _unique_ law—the Divine Volition. With the view of producing
      impediment, the organic life and matter, (complex, substantial,
      and law-encumbered,) were contrived.