_P._ But again—why need this impediment have been produced?

_V._ The result of law inviolate is perfection—right—negative
      happiness. The result of law violate is imperfection, wrong,
      positive pain. Through the impediments afforded by the number,
      complexity, and substantiality of the laws of organic life and
      matter, the violation of law is rendered, to a certain extent,
      practicable. Thus pain, which in the inorganic life is
      impossible, is possible in the organic.

_P._ But to what good end is pain thus rendered possible?

_V._ All things are either good or bad by comparison. A
      sufficient analysis will show that pleasure, in all cases, is but
      the contrast of pain. _Positive_ pleasure is a mere idea. To be
      happy at any one point we must have suffered at the same. Never
      to suffer would have been never to have been blessed. But it has
      been shown that, in the inorganic life, pain cannot be thus the
      necessity for the organic. The pain of the primitive life of
      Earth, is the sole basis of the bliss of the ultimate life in
      Heaven.

_P._ Still, there is one of your expressions which I find it
      impossible to comprehend—“the truly _substantive_ vastness of
      infinity.”

_V._ This, probably, is because you have no sufficiently generic
      conception of the term “_substance_” itself. We must not regard
      it as a quality, but as a sentiment:—it is the perception, in
      thinking beings, of the adaptation of matter to their
      organization. There are many things on the Earth, which would be
      nihility to the inhabitants of Venus—many things visible and
      tangible in Venus, which we could not be brought to appreciate as
      existing at all. But to the inorganic beings—to the angels—the
      whole of the unparticled matter is substance—that is to say, the
      whole of what we term “space” is to them the truest
      substantiality;—the stars, meantime, through what we consider
      their materiality, escaping the angelic sense, just in proportion
      as the unparticled matter, through what we consider its
      immateriality, eludes the organic.

As the sleep-waker pronounced these latter words, in a feeble
      tone, I observed on his countenance a singular expression, which
      somewhat alarmed me, and induced me to awake him at once. No
      sooner had I done this, than, with a bright smile irradiating all
      his features, he fell back upon his pillow and expired. I noticed
      that in less than a minute afterward his corpse had all the stern
      rigidity of stone. His brow was of the coldness of ice. Thus,
      ordinarily, should it have appeared, only after long pressure
      from Azrael’s hand. Had the sleep-waker, indeed, during the
      latter portion of his discourse, been addressing me from out the
      region of the shadows?

THE FACTS IN THE CASE OF M. VALDEMAR