When the ideas to which I have alluded first occurred to me, it
      was of course very natural that I should think of M. Valdemar. I
      knew the steady philosophy of the man too well to apprehend any
      scruples from him; and he had no relatives in America who would
      be likely to interfere. I spoke to him frankly upon the subject;
      and, to my surprise, his interest seemed vividly excited. I say
      to my surprise, for, although he had always yielded his person
      freely to my experiments, he had never before given me any tokens
      of sympathy with what I did. His disease was of that character
      which would admit of exact calculation in respect to the epoch of
      its termination in death; and it was finally arranged between us
      that he would send for me about twenty-four hours before the
      period announced by his physicians as that of his decease.

It is now rather more than seven months since I received, from M.
      Valdemar himself, the subjoined note:

MY DEAR P——,

You may as well come now. D—— and F—— are agreed that I cannot
      hold out beyond to-morrow midnight; and I think they have hit the
      time very nearly.

VALDEMAR

I received this note within half an hour after it was written,
      and in fifteen minutes more I was in the dying man’s chamber. I
      had not seen him for ten days, and was appalled by the fearful
      alteration which the brief interval had wrought in him. His face
      wore a leaden hue; the eyes were utterly lustreless; and the
      was barely perceptible. He retained, nevertheless, in a very
      remarkable manner, both his mental power and a certain degree of
      physical strength. He spoke with distinctness—took some
      palliative medicines without aid—and, when I entered the room,
      was occupied in penciling memoranda in a pocket-book. He was
      propped up in the bed by pillows. Doctors D—— and F—— were in
      attendance.

After pressing Valdemar’s hand, I took these gentlemen aside, and
      obtained from them a minute account of the patient’s condition.
      The left lung had been for eighteen months in a semi-osseous or
      cartilaginous state, and was, of course, entirely useless for all
      purposes of vitality. The right, in its upper portion, was also
      partially, if not thoroughly, ossified, while the lower region
      was merely a mass of purulent tubercles, running one into
      another. Several extensive perforations existed; and, at one
      point, permanent adhesion to the ribs had taken place. These
      appearances in the right lobe were of comparatively recent date.
      The ossification had proceeded with very unusual rapidity; no
      sign of it had been discovered a month before, and the adhesion
      had only been observed during the three previous days.
      Independently of the phthisis, the patient was suspected of
      aneurism of the aorta; but on this point the osseous symptoms
      rendered an exact diagnosis impossible. It was the opinion of
      both physicians that M. Valdemar would die about midnight on the
      morrow (Sunday). It was then seven o’clock on Saturday evening.