On quitting the invalid’s bed-side to hold conversation with
      myself, Doctors D—— and F—— had bidden him a final farewell. It
      had not been their intention to return; but, at my request, they
      agreed to look in upon the patient about ten the next night.

When they had gone, I spoke freely with M. Valdemar on the
      subject of his approaching dissolution, as well as, more
      particularly, of the experiment proposed. He still professed
      himself quite willing and even anxious to have it made, and urged
      me to commence it at once. A male and a female nurse were in
      attendance; but I did not feel myself altogether at liberty to
      engage in a task of this character with no more reliable
      witnesses than these people, in case of sudden accident, might
      prove. I therefore postponed operations until about eight the
      next night, when the arrival of a medical student with whom I had
      some acquaintance, (Mr. Theodore L—l,) relieved me from farther
      embarrassment. It had been my design, originally, to wait for the
      physicians; but I was induced to proceed, first, by the urgent
      entreaties of M. Valdemar, and secondly, by my conviction that I
      had not a moment to lose, as he was evidently sinking fast.

Mr. L—l was so kind as to accede to my desire that he would take
      notes of all that occurred, and it is from his memoranda that
      what I now have to relate is, for the most part, either condensed
      or copied verbatim.

It wanted about five minutes of eight when, taking the patient’s
      hand, I begged him to state, as distinctly as he could, to Mr.
      L—l, whether he (M. Valdemar) was entirely willing that I should
      make the experiment of mesmerizing him in his then condition.

He replied feebly, yet quite audibly, “Yes, I wish to be. I fear
      you have mesmerized”—adding immediately afterwards: “I fear you
      have deferred it too long.”

While he spoke thus, I commenced the passes which I had already
      found most effectual in subduing him. He was evidently influenced
      with the first lateral stroke of my hand across his forehead; but
      although I exerted all my powers, no further perceptible effect
      was induced until some minutes after ten o’clock, when Doctors
      D—— and F—— called, according to appointment. I explained to
      them, in a few words, what I designed, and as they opposed no
      objection, saying that the patient was already in the death
      agony, I proceeded without hesitation—exchanging, however, the
      lateral passes for downward ones, and directing my gaze entirely

stertorous, and at intervals of half a minute.

This condition was nearly unaltered for a quarter of an hour. At
      the expiration of this period, however, a natural although a very
      deep sigh escaped the bosom of the dying man, and the stertorous
      breathing ceased—that is to say, its stertorousness was no longer
      apparent; the intervals were undiminished. The patient’s
      extremities were of an icy coldness.