At five minutes before eleven I perceived unequivocal signs of
      the mesmeric influence. The glassy roll of the eye was changed
      for that expression of uneasy inward examination which is never
      seen except in cases of sleep-waking, and which it is quite
      impossible to mistake. With a few rapid lateral passes I made the
      lids quiver, as in incipient sleep, and with a few more I closed
      them altogether. I was not satisfied, however, with this, but
      continued the manipulations vigorously, and with the fullest
      exertion of the will, until I had completely stiffened the limbs
      of the slumberer, after placing them in a seemingly easy
      position. The legs were at full length; the arms were nearly so,
      and reposed on the bed at a moderate distance from the loin. The
      head was very slightly elevated.

When I had accomplished this, it was fully midnight, and I
      requested the gentlemen present to examine M. Valdemar’s
      condition. After a few experiments, they admitted him to be an
      unusually perfect state of mesmeric trance. The curiosity of both
      the physicians was greatly excited. Dr. D—— resolved at once to
      remain with the patient all night, while Dr. F—— took leave with
      a promise to return at daybreak. Mr. L—l and the nurses remained.

We left M. Valdemar entirely undisturbed until about three
      o’clock in the morning, when I approached him and found him in
      precisely the same condition as when Dr. F—— went away—that is to
      say, he lay in the same position; the pulse was imperceptible;
      the breathing was gentle (scarcely noticeable, unless through the
      application of a mirror to the lips); the eyes were closed
      naturally; and the limbs were as rigid and as cold as marble.
      Still, the general appearance was certainly not that of death.

As I approached M. Valdemar I made a kind of half effort to
      influence his right arm into pursuit of my own, as I passed the
      latter gently to and fro above his person. In such experiments
      with this patient, I had never perfectly succeeded before, and
      assuredly I had little thought of succeeding now; but to my
      astonishment, his arm very readily, although feebly, followed
      every direction I assigned it with mine. I determined to hazard a
      few words of conversation.

“M. Valdemar,” I said, “are you asleep?” He made no answer, but I
      perceived a tremor about the lips, and was thus induced to repeat
      the question, again and again. At its third repetition, his whole
      frame was agitated by a very slight shivering; the eyelids
      unclosed themselves so far as to display a white line of the
      ball; the lips moved sluggishly, and from between them, in a
      barely audible whisper, issued the words:

“Yes;—asleep now. Do not wake me!—let me die so!”

I here felt the limbs and found them as rigid as ever. The right
      arm, as before, obeyed the direction of my hand. I questioned the
      sleep-waker again:

“Do you still feel pain in the breast, M. Valdemar?”

The answer now was immediate, but even less audible than before: