“No pain—I am dying.”

I did not think it advisable to disturb him farther just then,
      and nothing more was said or done until the arrival of Dr. F——,
      who came a little before sunrise, and expressed unbounded
      astonishment at finding the patient still alive. After feeling
      the pulse and applying a mirror to the lips, he requested me to
      speak to the sleep-waker again. I did so, saying:

“M. Valdemar, do you still sleep?”

As before, some minutes elapsed ere a reply was made; and during
      the interval the dying man seemed to be collecting his energies
      to speak. At my fourth repetition of the question, he said very
      faintly, almost inaudibly:

“Yes; still asleep—dying.”

It was now the opinion, or rather the wish, of the physicians,
      that M. Valdemar should be suffered to remain undisturbed in his
      present apparently tranquil condition, until death should
      supervene—and this, it was generally agreed, must now take place
      within a few minutes. I concluded, however, to speak to him once
      more, and merely repeated my previous question.

While I spoke, there came a marked change over the countenance of
      the sleep-waker. The eyes rolled themselves slowly open, the
      pupils disappearing upwardly; the skin generally assumed a
      cadaverous hue, resembling not so much parchment as white paper;
      and the circular hectic spots which, hitherto, had been strongly
      defined in the centre of each cheek, went out at once. I use this
      expression, because the suddenness of their departure put me in
      mind of nothing so much as the extinguishment of a candle by a
      puff of the breath. The upper lip, at the same time, writhed
      itself away from the teeth, which it had previously covered
      completely; while the lower jaw fell with an audible jerk,
      leaving the mouth widely extended, and disclosing in full view
      the swollen and blackened tongue. I presume that no member of the
      party then present had been unaccustomed to death-bed horrors;
      but so hideous beyond conception was the appearance of M.
      Valdemar at this moment, that there was a general shrinking back
      from the region of the bed.

I now feel that I have reached a point of this narrative at which
      every reader will be startled into positive disbelief. It is my
      business, however, simply to proceed.