There was no longer the faintest sign of vitality in M. Valdemar;
      and concluding him to be dead, we were consigning him to the
      charge of the nurses, when a strong vibratory motion was
      observable in the tongue. This continued for perhaps a minute. At
      the expiration of this period, there issued from the distended
      and motionless jaws a voice—such as it would be madness in me to
      attempt describing. There are, indeed, two or three epithets
      which might be considered as applicable to it in part; I might
      say, for example, that the sound was harsh, and broken and
      hollow; but the hideous whole is indescribable, for the simple
      reason that no similar sounds have ever jarred upon the ear of
      humanity. There were two particulars, nevertheless, which I
      thought then, and still think, might fairly be stated as
      characteristic of the intonation—as well adapted to convey some
      idea of its unearthly peculiarity. In the first place, the voice
      seemed to reach our ears—at least mine—from a vast distance, or
      from some deep cavern within the earth. In the second place, it
      impressed me (I fear, indeed, that it will be impossible to make
      myself comprehended) as gelatinous or glutinous matters impress
      the sense of touch.

I have spoken both of “sound” and of “voice.” I mean to say that
      the sound was one of distinct—of even wonderfully, thrillingly
      distinct—syllabification. M. Valdemar spoke—obviously in reply to
      the question I had propounded to him a few minutes before. I had
      asked him, it will be remembered, if he still slept. He now said:

“Yes;—no;—I have been sleeping—and now—now—I am dead.”

No person present even affected to deny, or attempted to repress,
      the unutterable, shuddering horror which these few words, thus
      uttered, were so well calculated to convey. Mr. L—l (the student)
      swooned. The nurses immediately left the chamber, and could not
      be induced to return. My own impressions I would not pretend to
      render intelligible to the reader. For nearly an hour, we busied
      ourselves, silently—without the utterance of a word—in endeavors
      to revive Mr. L—l. When he came to himself, we addressed
      ourselves again to an investigation of M. Valdemar’s condition.