It remained in all respects as I have last described it, with the
      exception that the mirror no longer afforded evidence of
      respiration. An attempt to draw blood from the arm failed. I
      should mention, too, that this limb was no farther subject to my
      will. I endeavored in vain to make it follow the direction of my
      hand. The only real indication, indeed, of the mesmeric
      influence, was now found in the vibratory movement of the tongue,
      whenever I addressed M. Valdemar a question. He seemed to be
      making an effort to reply, but had no longer sufficient volition.
      To queries put to him by any other person than myself he seemed
      utterly insensible—although I endeavored to place each member of
      the company in mesmeric rapport with him. I believe that I have
      now related all that is necessary to an understanding of the
      sleep-waker’s state at this epoch. Other nurses were procured;
      and at ten o’clock I left the house in company with the two
      physicians and Mr. L—l.

In the afternoon we all called again to see the patient. His
      condition remained precisely the same. We had now some discussion
      as to the propriety and feasibility of awakening him; but we had
      little difficulty in agreeing that no good purpose would be
      served by so doing. It was evident that, so far, death (or what
      is usually termed death) had been arrested by the mesmeric
      process. It seemed clear to us all that to awaken M. Valdemar
      would be merely to insure his instant, or at least his speedy,
      dissolution.

From this period until the close of last week—an interval of
      nearly seven months—we continued to make daily calls at M.
      Valdemar’s house, accompanied, now and then, by medical and other
      friends. All this time the sleeper-waker remained _exactly_ as I
      have last described him. The nurses’ attentions were continual.

It was on Friday last that we finally resolved to make the
      experiment of awakening, or attempting to awaken him; and it is
      the (perhaps) unfortunate result of this latter experiment which
      has given rise to so much discussion in private circles—to so
      much of what I cannot help thinking unwarranted popular feeling.

For the purpose of relieving M. Valdemar from the mesmeric
      trance, I made use of the customary passes. These, for a time,
      remarkable, that this lowering of the pupil was accompanied by
      the profuse out-flowing of a yellowish ichor (from beneath the
      lids) of a pungent and highly offensive odor.

It was now suggested that I should attempt to influence the
      patient’s arm, as heretofore. I made the attempt and failed. Dr.
      F—— then intimated a desire to have me put a question. I did so,
      as follows:

“M. Valdemar, can you explain to us what are your feelings or
      wishes now?”