There was an instant return of the hectic circles on the cheeks;
      the tongue quivered, or rather rolled violently in the mouth
      (although the jaws and lips remained rigid as before), and at
      length the same hideous voice which I have already described,
      broke forth:

“For God’s sake!—quick!—quick!—put me to sleep—or, quick!—waken
      me!—quick!—I say to you that I am dead!”

I was thoroughly unnerved, and for an instant remained undecided
      what to do. At first I made an endeavor to recompose the patient;
      but, failing in this through total abeyance of the will, I
      retraced my steps and as earnestly struggled to awaken him. In
      this attempt I soon saw that I should be successful—or at least I
      soon fancied that my success would be complete—and I am sure that
      all in the room were prepared to see the patient awaken.

For what really occurred, however, it is quite impossible that
      any human being could have been prepared.

As I rapidly made the mesmeric passes, amid ejaculations of
      “dead! dead!” absolutely bursting from the tongue and not from
      the lips of the sufferer, his whole frame at once—within the
      space of a single minute, or even less,
      shrunk—crumbled—absolutely rotted away beneath my hands. Upon the
      bed, before that whole company, there lay a nearly liquid mass of
      loathsome—of detestable putrescence.

THE BLACK CAT.

For the most wild, yet most homely narrative which I am about to
      pen, I neither expect nor solicit belief. Mad indeed would I be
      to expect it, in a case where my very senses reject their own
      evidence. Yet, mad am I not—and very surely do I not dream. But
      to-morrow I die, and to-day I would unburthen my soul. My
      immediate purpose is to place before the world, plainly,
      succinctly, and without comment, a series of mere household
      events. In their consequences, these events have terrified—have
      tortured—have destroyed me. Yet I will not attempt to expound
      them. To me, they have presented little but horror—to many they
      will seem less terrible than _barroques_. Hereafter, perhaps,
      some intellect may be found which will reduce my phantasm to the
      common-place—some intellect more calm, more logical, and far less
      excitable than my own, which will perceive, in the circumstances
      I detail with awe, nothing more than an ordinary succession of
      very natural causes and effects.