From my infancy I was noted for the docility and humanity of my
      disposition. My tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to
      make me the jest of my companions. I was especially fond of
      animals, and was indulged by my parents with a great variety of
      pets. With these I spent most of my time, and never was so happy
      as when feeding and caressing them. This peculiarity of character
      grew with my growth, and in my manhood, I derived from it one of
      my principal sources of pleasure. To those who have cherished an
      affection for a faithful and sagacious dog, I need hardly be at
      the trouble of explaining the nature or the intensity of the
      gratification thus derivable. There is something in the unselfish
      and self-sacrificing love of a brute, which goes directly to the
      heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry
      friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere _Man_.

I married early, and was happy to find in my wife a disposition
      not uncongenial with my own. Observing my partiality for domestic
      pets, she lost no opportunity of procuring those of the most
      agreeable kind. We had birds, gold-fish, a fine dog, rabbits, a
      small monkey, and _a cat_.

This latter was a remarkably large and beautiful animal, entirely
      black, and sagacious to an astonishing degree. In speaking of his
      intelligence, my wife, who at heart was not a little tinctured
      with superstition, made frequent allusion to the ancient popular
      notion, which regarded all black cats as witches in disguise. Not
      that she was ever _serious_ upon this point—and I mention the
      matter at all for no better reason than that it happens, just
      now, to be remembered.

Pluto—this was the cat’s name—was my favorite pet and playmate. I
      alone fed him, and he attended me wherever I went about the
      house. It was even with difficulty that I could prevent him from
      following me through the streets.

Our friendship lasted, in this manner, for several years, during
      which my general temperament and character—through the
      instrumentality of the Fiend Intemperance—had (I blush to confess
      feelings of others. I suffered myself to use intemperate language
      to my wife. At length, I even offered her personal violence. My
      pets, of course, were made to feel the change in my disposition.
      I not only neglected, but ill-used them. For Pluto, however, I
      still retained sufficient regard to restrain me from maltreating
      him, as I made no scruple of maltreating the rabbits, the monkey,
      or even the dog, when by accident, or through affection, they
      came in my way. But my disease grew upon me—for what disease is
      like Alcohol!—and at length even Pluto, who was now becoming old,
      and consequently somewhat peevish—even Pluto began to experience
      the effects of my ill temper.