In the meantime the cat slowly recovered. The socket of the lost
      eye presented, it is true, a frightful appearance, but he no
      longer appeared to suffer any pain. He went about the house as
      usual, but, as might be expected, fled in extreme terror at my
      approach. I had so much of my old heart left, as to be at first
      grieved by this evident dislike on the part of a creature which
      had once so loved me. But this feeling soon gave place to
      irritation. And then came, as if to my final and irrevocable
      overthrow, the spirit of PERVERSENESS. Of this spirit philosophy
      takes no account. Yet I am not more sure that my soul lives, than
      I am that perverseness is one of the primitive impulses of the
      human heart—one of the indivisible primary faculties, or
      sentiments, which give direction to the character of Man. Who has
      not, a hundred times, found himself committing a vile or a silly
      action, for no other reason than because he knows he should not?
      Have we not a perpetual inclination, in the teeth of our best
      judgment, to violate that which is _Law_, merely because we
      understand it to be such? This spirit of perverseness, I say,
      came to my final overthrow. It was this unfathomable longing of
      the soul _to vex itself_—to offer violence to its own nature—to
      do wrong for the wrong’s sake only—that urged me to continue and
      finally to consummate the injury I had inflicted upon the
      unoffending brute. One morning, in cool blood, I slipped a noose
      about its neck and hung it to the limb of a tree;—hung it with
      the tears streaming from my eyes, and with the bitterest remorse
      at my heart;—hung it _because_ I knew that it had loved me, and
      _because_ I felt it had given me no reason of offence;—hung it
      _because_ I knew that in so doing I was committing a sin—a deadly
      sin that would so jeopardize my immortal soul as to place it—if
      such a thing were possible—even beyond the reach of the infinite
      mercy of the Most Merciful and Most Terrible God.

On the night of the day on which this cruel deed was done, I was
      aroused from sleep by the cry of fire. The curtains of my bed
      were in flames. The whole house was blazing. It was with great
      difficulty that my wife, a servant, and myself, made our escape
      from the conflagration. The destruction was complete. My entire
      worldly wealth was swallowed up, and I resigned myself
      thenceforward to despair.