I am above the weakness of seeking to establish a sequence of
      cause and effect, between the disaster and the atrocity. But I am
      detailing a chain of facts—and wish not to leave even a possible
      link imperfect. On the day succeeding the fire, I visited the
      ruins. The walls, with one exception, had fallen in. This
      exception was found in a compartment wall, not very thick, which
      stood about the middle of the house, and against which had rested
      the head of my bed. The plastering had here, in great measure,
      resisted the action of the fire—a fact which I attributed to its
      having been recently spread. About this wall a dense crowd were
      collected, and many persons seemed to be examining a particular
      portion of it with very minute and eager attention. The words
      “strange!” “singular!” and other similar expressions, excited my
      curiosity. I approached and saw, as if graven in _bas relief_
      upon the white surface, the figure of a gigantic _cat_. The
      impression was given with an accuracy truly marvellous. There was
      a rope about the animal’s neck.

When I first beheld this apparition—for I could scarcely regard
      it as less—my wonder and my terror were extreme. But at length
      reflection came to my aid. The cat, I remembered, had been hung
      in a garden adjacent to the house. Upon the alarm of fire, this
      garden had been immediately filled by the crowd—by some one of
      whom the animal must have been cut from the tree and thrown,
      through an open window, into my chamber. This had probably been
      done with the view of arousing me from sleep. The falling of
      other walls had compressed the victim of my cruelty into the
      substance of the freshly-spread plaster; the lime of which, with
      the flames, and the _ammonia_ from the carcass, had then
      accomplished the portraiture as I saw it.

Although I thus readily accounted to my reason, if not altogether
      to my conscience, for the startling fact just detailed, it did
      not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy. For
      months I could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat; and,
      during this period, there came back into my spirit a
      half-sentiment that seemed, but was not, remorse. I went so far
      as to regret the loss of the animal, and to look about me, among
      the vile haunts which I now habitually frequented, for another
      pet of the same species, and of somewhat similar appearance, with
      which to supply its place.