One night as I sat, half stupefied, in a den of more than infamy,
      my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object, reposing
      upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of gin, or of rum,
      which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment. I had
      been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some
      minutes, and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had
      not sooner perceived the object thereupon. I approached it, and
      touched it with my hand. It was a black cat—a very large
      one—fully as large as Pluto, and closely resembling him in every
      respect but one. Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of
      his body; but this cat had a large, although indefinite splotch
      of white, covering nearly the whole region of the breast. Upon my
      touching him, he immediately arose, purred loudly, rubbed against
      my hand, and appeared delighted with my notice. This, then, was
      the very creature of which I was in search. I at once offered to
      purchase it of the landlord; but this person made no claim to
      it—knew nothing of it—had never seen it before.

I continued my caresses, and, when I prepared to go home, the
      animal evinced a disposition to accompany me. I permitted it to
      do so; occasionally stooping and patting it as I proceeded. When
      it reached the house it domesticated itself at once, and became
      immediately a great favorite with my wife.

For my own part, I soon found a dislike to it arising within me.
      This was just the reverse of what I had anticipated; but—I know
      not how or why it was—its evident fondness for myself rather
      disgusted and annoyed. By slow degrees, these feelings of disgust
      and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred. I avoided the
      creature; a certain sense of shame, and the remembrance of my
      former deed of cruelty, preventing me from physically abusing it.
      I did not, for some weeks, strike, or otherwise violently ill use
      it; but gradually—very gradually—I came to look upon it with
      unutterable loathing, and to flee silently from its odious
      presence, as from the breath of a pestilence.

What added, no doubt, to my hatred of the beast, was the
      discovery, on the morning after I brought it home, that, like
      Pluto, it also had been deprived of one of its eyes. This
      circumstance, however, only endeared it to my wife, who, as I
      have already said, possessed, in a high degree, that humanity of
      feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait, and the
      source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures.