With my aversion to this cat, however, its partiality for myself
      seemed to increase. It followed my footsteps with a pertinacity
      which it would be difficult to make the reader comprehend.
      Whenever I sat, it would crouch beneath my chair, or spring upon
      my knees, covering me with its loathsome caresses. If I arose to
      walk it would get between my feet and thus nearly throw me down,
      or, fastening its long and sharp claws in my dress, clamber, in
      this manner, to my breast. At such times, although I longed to
      once—by absolute dread of the beast.

This dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil—and yet I
      should be at a loss how otherwise to define it. I am almost
      ashamed to own—yes, even in this felon’s cell, I am almost
      ashamed to own—that the terror and horror with which the animal
      inspired me, had been heightened by one of the merest chimaeras
      it would be possible to conceive. My wife had called my
      attention, more than once, to the character of the mark of white
      hair, of which I have spoken, and which constituted the sole
      visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had
      destroyed. The reader will remember that this mark, although
      large, had been originally very indefinite; but, by slow
      degrees—degrees nearly imperceptible, and which for a long time
      my reason struggled to reject as fanciful—it had, at length,
      assumed a rigorous distinctness of outline. It was now the
      representation of an object that I shudder to name—and for this,
      above all, I loathed, and dreaded, and would have rid myself of
      the monster _had I dared_—it was now, I say, the image of a
      hideous—of a ghastly thing—of the GALLOWS!—oh, mournful and
      terrible engine of Horror and of Crime—of Agony and of Death!

And now was I indeed wretched beyond the wretchedness of mere
      Humanity. And _a brute beast _—whose fellow I had contemptuously
      destroyed—_a brute beast_ to work out for _me_—for me a man,
      fashioned in the image of the High God—so much of insufferable
      woe! Alas! neither by day nor by night knew I the blessing of
      rest any more! During the former the creature left me no moment
      alone, and in the latter I started hourly from dreams of
      unutterable fear to find the hot breath of _the thing_ upon my
      face, and its vast weight—an incarnate nightmare that I had no
      power to shake off—incumbent eternally upon my _heart!_

Beneath the pressure of torments such as these, the feeble
      remnant of the good within me succumbed. Evil thoughts became my
      sole intimates—the darkest and most evil of thoughts. The
      moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things
      and of all mankind; while, from the sudden, frequent, and
      ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which I now blindly abandoned
      myself, my uncomplaining wife, alas, was the most usual and the
      most patient of sufferers.