One day she accompanied me, upon some household errand, into the
      cellar of the old building which our poverty compelled us to
      inhabit. The cat followed me down the steep stairs, and, nearly
      throwing me headlong, exasperated me to madness. Uplifting an
      axe, and forgetting, in my wrath, the childish dread which had
      hitherto stayed my hand, I aimed a blow at the animal which, of
      course, would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as I
      wished. But this blow was arrested by the hand of my wife.
      Goaded, by the interference, into a rage more than demoniacal, I
      withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the axe in her brain.
      She fell dead upon the spot, without a groan.

This hideous murder accomplished, I set myself forthwith, and
      with entire deliberation, to the task of concealing the body. I
      Many projects entered my mind. At one period I thought of cutting
      the corpse into minute fragments, and destroying them by fire. At
      another, I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the
      cellar. Again, I deliberated about casting it in the well in the
      yard—about packing it in a box, as if merchandise, with the usual
      arrangements, and so getting a porter to take it from the house.
      Finally I hit upon what I considered a far better expedient than
      either of these. I determined to wall it up in the cellar—as the
      monks of the middle ages are recorded to have walled up their
      victims.

For a purpose such as this the cellar was well adapted. Its walls
      were loosely constructed, and had lately been plastered
      throughout with a rough plaster, which the dampness of the
      atmosphere had prevented from hardening. Moreover, in one of the
      walls was a projection, caused by a false chimney, or fireplace,
      that had been filled up, and made to resemble the red of the
      cellar. I made no doubt that I could readily displace the bricks
      at this point, insert the corpse, and wall the whole up as
      before, so that no eye could detect any thing suspicious. And in
      this calculation I was not deceived. By means of a crow-bar I
      easily dislodged the bricks, and, having carefully deposited the
      body against the inner wall, I propped it in that position,
      while, with little trouble, I re-laid the whole structure as it
      originally stood. Having procured mortar, sand, and hair, with
      every possible precaution, I prepared a plaster which could not
      be distinguished from the old, and with this I very carefully
      went over the new brickwork. When I had finished, I felt
      satisfied that all was right. The wall did not present the
      slightest appearance of having been disturbed. The rubbish on the
      floor was picked up with the minutest care. I looked around
      triumphantly, and said to myself: “Here at least, then, my labor
      has not been in vain.”