My next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause
      of so much wretchedness; for I had, at length, firmly resolved to
      put it to death. Had I been able to meet with it, at the moment,
      there could have been no doubt of its fate; but it appeared that
      the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous
      anger, and forebore to present itself in my present mood. It is
      impossible to describe, or to imagine, the deep, the blissful
      sense of relief which the absence of the detested creature
      occasioned in my bosom. It did not make its appearance during the
      night; and thus for one night at least, since its introduction
      into the house, I soundly and tranquilly slept; aye, slept even
      with the burden of murder upon my soul!

The second and the third day passed, and still my tormentor came
      not. Once again I breathed as a freeman. The monster, in terror,
      had fled the premises forever! I should behold it no more! My
      happiness was supreme! The guilt of my dark deed disturbed me but
      little. Some few inquiries had been made, but these had been
      readily answered. Even a search had been instituted—but of course
      nothing was to be discovered. I looked upon my future felicity as
      secured.

Upon the fourth day of the assassination, a party of the police
      came, very unexpectedly, into the house, and proceeded again to
      make rigorous investigation of the premises. Secure, however, in
      the inscrutability of my place of concealment, I felt no
      embarrassment whatever. The officers bade me accompany them in
      their search. They left no nook or corner unexplored. At length,
      for the third or fourth time, they descended into the cellar. I
      quivered not in a muscle. My heart beat calmly as that of one who
      slumbers in innocence. I walked the cellar from end to end. I
      folded my arms upon my bosom, and roamed easily to and fro. The
      police were thoroughly satisfied and prepared to depart. The glee
      at my heart was too strong to be restrained. I burned to say if
      but one word, by way of triumph, and to render doubly sure their
      assurance of my guiltlessness.

“Gentlemen,” I said at last, as the party ascended the steps, “I
      delight to have allayed your suspicions. I wish you all health,
      and a little more courtesy. By the bye, gentlemen, this—this is a
      very well-constructed house.” (In the rabid desire to say
      something easily, I scarcely knew what I uttered at all.)—“I may
      say an _excellently_ well-constructed house. These walls—are you
      going, gentlemen?—these walls are solidly put together;” and
      here, through the mere phrenzy of bravado, I rapped heavily, with
      a cane which I held in my hand, upon that very portion of the
      brick-work behind which stood the corpse of the wife of my bosom.