Nevertheless, in this mansion of gloom I now proposed to myself a
      sojourn of some weeks. Its proprietor, Roderick Usher, had been
      one of my boon companions in boyhood; but many years had elapsed
      since our last meeting. A letter, however, had lately reached me
      in a distant part of the country—a letter from him—which, in its
      wildly importunate nature, had admitted of no other than a
      personal reply. The MS. gave evidence of nervous agitation. The
      writer spoke of acute bodily illness—of a mental disorder which
      oppressed him—and of an earnest desire to see me, as his best,
      malady. It was the manner in which all this, and much more, was
      said—it was the apparent _heart_ that went with his request—which
      allowed me no room for hesitation; and I accordingly obeyed
      forthwith what I still considered a very singular summons.

Although, as boys, we had been even intimate associates, yet I
      really knew little of my friend. His reserve had been always
      excessive and habitual. I was aware, however, that his very
      ancient family had been noted, time out of mind, for a peculiar
      sensibility of temperament, displaying itself, through long ages,
      in many works of exalted art, and manifested, of late, in
      repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity, as well as
      in a passionate devotion to the intricacies, perhaps even more
      than to the orthodox and easily recognisable beauties, of musical
      science. I had learned, too, the very remarkable fact, that the
      stem of the Usher race, all time-honored as it was, had put
      forth, at no period, any enduring branch; in other words, that
      the entire family lay in the direct line of descent, and had
      always, with very trifling and very temporary variation, so lain.
      It was this deficiency, I considered, while running over in
      thought the perfect keeping of the character of the premises with
      the accredited character of the people, and while speculating
      upon the possible influence which the one, in the long lapse of
      centuries, might have exercised upon the other—it was this
      deficiency, perhaps, of collateral issue, and the consequent
      undeviating transmission, from sire to son, of the patrimony with
      the name, which had, at length, so identified the two as to merge
      the original title of the estate in the quaint and equivocal
      appellation of the “House of Usher”—an appellation which seemed
      to include, in the minds of the peasantry who used it, both the
      family and the family mansion.