I have said that the sole effect of my somewhat childish
      experiment—that of looking down within the tarn—had been to
      deepen the first singular impression. There can be no doubt that
      the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition—for
      why should I not so term it?—served mainly to accelerate the
      increase itself. Such, I have long known, is the paradoxical law
      of all sentiments having terror as a basis. And it might have
      been for this reason only, that, when I again uplifted my eyes to
      the house itself, from its image in the pool, there grew in my
      mind a strange fancy—a fancy so ridiculous, indeed, that I but
      mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which
      oppressed me. I had so worked upon my imagination as really to
      believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an
      atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity—an
      atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven, but
      which had reeked up from the decayed trees, and the gray wall,
      and the silent tarn—a pestilent and mystic vapor, dull, sluggish,
      faintly discernible, and leaden-hued.

Shaking off from my spirit what _must_ have been a dream, I
      scanned more narrowly the real aspect of the building. Its
      principal feature seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity.
      The discoloration of ages had been great. Minute fungi overspread
      the whole exterior, hanging in a fine tangled web-work from the
      eaves. Yet all this was apart from any extraordinary
      dilapidation. No portion of the masonry had fallen; and there
      appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect
      adaptation of parts, and the crumbling condition of the
      individual stones. In this there was much that reminded me of the
      specious totality of old wood-work which has rotted for long
      years in some neglected vault, with no disturbance from the
      breath of the external air. Beyond this indication of extensive
      decay, however, the fabric gave little token of instability.
      Perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing observer might have discovered
      a barely perceptible fissure, which, extending from the roof of
      the building in front, made its way down the wall in a zigzag
      direction, until it became lost in the sullen waters of the tarn.