Noticing these things, I rode over a short causeway to the house.
      A servant in waiting took my horse, and I entered the Gothic
      archway of the hall. A valet, of stealthy step, thence conducted
      me, in silence, through many dark and intricate passages in my
      progress to the _studio_ of his master. Much that I encountered
      on the way contributed, I know not how, to heighten the vague
      sentiments of which I have already spoken. While the objects
      around me—while the carvings of the ceilings, the sombre
      tapestries of the walls, the ebon blackness of the floors, and
      the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as I strode,
      were but matters to which, or to such as which, I had been
      accustomed from my infancy—while I hesitated not to acknowledge
      how familiar was all this—I still wondered to find how unfamiliar
      were the fancies which ordinary images were stirring up. On one
      of the staircases, I met the physician of the family. His
      countenance, I thought, wore a mingled expression of low cunning
      and perplexity. He accosted me with trepidation and passed on.
      The valet now threw open a door and ushered me into the presence
      of his master.

The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty. The
      windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a distance
      from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from
      within. Feeble gleams of encrimsoned light made their way through
      the trellissed panes, and served to render sufficiently distinct
      the more prominent objects around; the eye, however, struggled in
      vain to reach the remoter angles of the chamber, or the recesses
      of the vaulted and fretted ceiling. Dark draperies hung upon the
      walls. The general furniture was profuse, comfortless, antique,
      and tattered. Many books and musical instruments lay scattered
      about, but failed to give any vitality to the scene. I felt that
      I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow. An air of stern, deep, and
      irredeemable gloom hung over and pervaded all.