Upon my entrance, Usher arose from a sofa on which he had been
      lying at full length, and greeted me with a vivacious warmth
      which had much in it, I at first thought, of an overdone
      cordiality—of the constrained effort of the _ennuyé_ man of the
      world. A glance, however, at his countenance, convinced me of his
      perfect sincerity. We sat down; and for some moments, while he
      spoke not, I gazed upon him with a feeling half of pity, half of
      awe. Surely, man had never before so terribly altered, in so
      brief a period, as had Roderick Usher! It was with difficulty
      that I could bring myself to admit the identity of the wan being
      before me with the companion of my early boyhood. Yet the
      character of his face had been at all times remarkable. A
      cadaverousness of complexion; an eye large, liquid, and luminous
      beyond comparison; lips somewhat thin and very pallid, but of a
      surpassingly beautiful curve; a nose of a delicate Hebrew model,
      but with a breadth of nostril unusual in similar formations; a
      finely moulded chin, speaking, in its want of prominence, of a
      want of moral energy; hair of a more than web-like softness and
      tenuity; these features, with an inordinate expansion above the
      regions of the temple, made up altogether a countenance not
      easily to be forgotten. And now in the mere exaggeration of the
      prevailing character of these features, and of the expression
      they were wont to convey, lay so much of change that I doubted to
      whom I spoke. The now ghastly pallor of the skin, and the now
      miraculous lustre of the eye, above all things startled and even
      awed me. The silken hair, too, had been suffered to grow all
      unheeded, and as, in its wild gossamer texture, it floated rather
      than fell about the face, I could not, even with effort, connect
      its Arabesque expression with any idea of simple humanity.

In the manner of my friend I was at once struck with an
      incoherence—an inconsistency; and I soon found this to arise from
      a series of feeble and futile struggles to overcome an habitual
      trepidancy—an excessive nervous agitation. For something of this
      nature I had indeed been prepared, no less by his letter, than by
      reminiscences of certain boyish traits, and by conclusions
      deduced from his peculiar physical conformation and temperament.
      His action was alternately vivacious and sullen. His voice varied
      rapidly from a tremulous indecision (when the animal spirits
      seemed utterly in abeyance) to that species of energetic
      concision—that abrupt, weighty, unhurried, and hollow-sounding
      enunciation—that leaden, self-balanced and perfectly modulated
      guttural utterance, which may be observed in the lost drunkard,
      or the irreclaimable eater of opium, during the periods of his
      most intense excitement.