It was thus that he spoke of the object of my visit, of his
      earnest desire to see me, and of the solace he expected me to
      afford him. He entered, at some length, into what he conceived to
      be the nature of his malady. It was, he said, a constitutional
      and a family evil, and one for which he despaired to find a
      remedy—a mere nervous affection, he immediately added, which
      would undoubtedly soon pass off. It displayed itself in a host of
      unnatural sensations. Some of these, as he detailed them,
      interested and bewildered me; although, perhaps, the terms, and
      the general manner of the narration had their weight. He suffered
      much from a morbid acuteness of the senses; the most insipid food
      was alone endurable; he could wear only garments of certain
      texture; the odors of all flowers were oppressive; his eyes were
      tortured by even a faint light; and there were but peculiar
      sounds, and these from stringed instruments, which did not
      inspire him with horror.

To an anomalous species of terror I found him a bounden slave. “I
      shall perish,” said he, “I must perish in this deplorable folly.
      Thus, thus, and not otherwise, shall I be lost. I dread the
      events of the future, not in themselves, but in their results. I
      shudder at the thought of any, even the most trivial, incident,
      which may operate upon this intolerable agitation of soul. I
      have, indeed, no abhorrence of danger, except in its absolute
      effect—in terror. In this unnerved—in this pitiable condition—I
      feel that the period will sooner or later arrive when I must
      abandon life and reason together, in some struggle with the grim
      phantasm, FEAR.”

I learned, moreover, at intervals, and through broken and
      equivocal hints, another singular feature of his mental
      condition. He was enchained by certain superstitious impressions
      in regard to the dwelling which he tenanted, and whence, for many
      years, he had never ventured forth—in regard to an influence
      whose supposititious force was conveyed in terms too shadowy here
      to be re-stated—an influence which some peculiarities in the mere
      form and substance of his family mansion, had, by dint of long
      sufferance, he said, obtained over his spirit—an effect which the
      _physique_ of the gray walls and turrets, and of the dim tarn
      into which they all looked down, had, at length, brought about
      upon the _morale_ of his existence.