He admitted, however, although with hesitation, that much of the
      peculiar gloom which thus afflicted him could be traced to a more
      natural and far more palpable origin—to the severe and
      long-continued illness—indeed to the evidently approaching
      dissolution—of a tenderly beloved sister—his sole companion for
      long years—his last and only relative on earth. “Her decease,” he
      said, with a bitterness which I can never forget, “would leave
      him (him the hopeless and the frail) the last of the ancient race
      of the Ushers.” While he spoke, the lady Madeline (for so was she
      called) passed slowly through a remote portion of the apartment,
      and, without having noticed my presence, disappeared. I regarded
      her with an utter astonishment not unmingled with dread—and yet I
      found it impossible to account for such feelings. A sensation of
      stupor oppressed me, as my eyes followed her retreating steps.
      When a door, at length, closed upon her, my glance sought
      instinctively and eagerly the countenance of the brother—but he
      had buried his face in his hands, and I could only perceive that
      a far more than ordinary wanness had overspread the emaciated
      fingers through which trickled many passionate tears.

The disease of the lady Madeline had long baffled the skill of
      her physicians. A settled apathy, a gradual wasting away of the
      person, and frequent although transient affections of a partially
      cataleptical character, were the unusual diagnosis. Hitherto she
      had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady, and had
      not betaken herself finally to bed; but, on the closing in of the
      evening of my arrival at the house, she succumbed (as her brother
      told me at night with inexpressible agitation) to the prostrating
      power of the destroyer; and I learned that the glimpse I had
      obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should
      obtain—that the lady, at least while living, would be seen by me
      no more.

For several days ensuing, her name was unmentioned by either
      Usher or myself; and during this period I was busied in earnest
      endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend. We painted
      and read together; or I listened, as if in a dream, to the wild
      improvisations of his speaking guitar. And thus, as a closer and
      still closer intimacy admitted me more unreservedly into the
      recesses of his spirit, the more bitterly did I perceive the
      futility of all attempt at cheering a mind from which darkness,
      as if an inherent positive quality, poured forth upon all objects
      of the moral and physical universe, in one unceasing radiation of
      gloom.