I shall ever bear about me a memory of the many solemn hours I
      thus spent alone with the master of the House of Usher. Yet I
      should fail in any attempt to convey an idea of the exact
      character of the studies, or of the occupations, in which he
      involved me, or led me the way. An excited and highly distempered
      ideality threw a sulphureous lustre over all. His long improvised
      dirges will ring forever in my ears. Among other things, I hold
      painfully in mind a certain singular perversion and amplification
      of the wild air of the last waltz of Von Weber. From the
      paintings over which his elaborate fancy brooded, and which grew,
      touch by touch, into vaguenesses at which I shuddered the more
      thrillingly, because I shuddered knowing not why—from these
      paintings (vivid as their images now are before me) I would in
      vain endeavor to educe more than a small portion which should lie
      within the compass of merely written words. By the utter
      simplicity, by the nakedness of his designs, he arrested and
      overawed attention. If ever mortal painted an idea, that mortal
      was Roderick Usher. For me at least—in the circumstances then
      surrounding me—there arose out of the pure abstractions which the
      hypochondriac contrived to throw upon his canvass, an intensity
      of intolerable awe, no shadow of which felt I ever yet in the
      contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete reveries
      of Fuseli.

One of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend, partaking not
      so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction, may be shadowed forth,
      although feebly, in words. A small picture presented the interior
      of an immensely long and rectangular vault or tunnel, with low
      walls, smooth, white, and without interruption or device. Certain
      accessory points of the design served well to convey the idea
      that this excavation lay at an exceeding depth below the surface
      of the earth. No outlet was observed in any portion of its vast
      extent, and no torch, or other artificial source of light was
      discernible; yet a flood of intense rays rolled throughout, and
      bathed the whole in a ghastly and inappropriate splendor.