I have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory nerve
      which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer, with the
      exception of certain effects of stringed instruments. It was,
      perhaps, the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself upon
      the guitar, which gave birth, in great measure, to the fantastic
      character of his performances. But the fervid _facility_ of his
      _impromptus_ could not be so accounted for. They must have been,
      and were, in the notes, as well as in the words of his wild
      fantasias (for he not unfrequently accompanied himself with
      rhymed verbal improvisations), the result of that intense mental
      collectedness and concentration to which I have previously
      alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest
      artificial excitement. The words of one of these rhapsodies I
      have easily remembered. I was, perhaps, the more forcibly
      impressed with it, as he gave it, because, in the under or mystic
      current of its meaning, I fancied that I perceived, and for the
      first time, a full consciousness on the part of Usher of the
      tottering of his lofty reason upon her throne. The verses, which
      were entitled “The Haunted Palace,” ran very nearly, if not
      accurately, thus:

I.
     Once a fair and stately palace—
    Radiant palace—reared its head.
     In the monarch Thought’s dominion—
    It stood there!
     Never seraph spread a pinion
    Over fabric half so fair.

II.
     Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
    On its roof did float and flow;
     (This—all this—was in the olden
    Time long ago)
     And every gentle air that dallied,
    In that sweet day,
     Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,
    A winged odor went away.

III.
     Wanderers in that happy valley
    Through two luminous windows saw
     Spirits moving musically
    To a lute’s well-tunéd law,
     Round about a throne, where sitting
    (Porphyrogene!)
     In state his glory well befitting,
    The ruler of the realm was seen.

IV.
     And all with pearl and ruby glowing
    Was the fair palace door,
     Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,
    And sparkling evermore,
     A troop of Echoes whose sweet duty
    Was but to sing,
     In voices of surpassing beauty,
    The wit and wisdom of their king.

V.
     But evil things, in robes of sorrow,
    Assailed the monarch’s high estate;
     (Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow
    Shall dawn upon him, desolate!)
     And, round about his home, the glory
    That blushed and bloomed
     Is but a dim-remembered story
    Of the old time entombed.

VI.
     And travellers now within that valley,
    Through the red-litten windows, see
     Vast forms that move fantastically
    To a discordant melody;
     While, like a rapid ghastly river,
    Through the pale door,
     A hideous throng rush out forever,
    And laugh—but smile no more.