I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad, led us
      into a train of thought wherein there became manifest an opinion
      of Usher’s which I mention not so much on account of its novelty,
      (for other men * have thought thus,) as on account of the
      pertinacity with which he maintained it. This opinion, in its
      general form, was that of the sentience of all vegetable things.
      But, in his disordered fancy, the idea had assumed a more daring
      character, and trespassed, under certain conditions, upon the
      kingdom of inorganization. I lack words to express the full
      extent, or the earnest _abandon_ of his persuasion. The belief,
      however, was connected (as I have previously hinted) with the
      gray stones of the home of his forefathers. The conditions of the
      sentience had been here, he imagined, fulfilled in the method of
      collocation of these stones—in the order of their arrangement, as
      well as in that of the many _fungi_ which overspread them, and of
      the decayed trees which stood around—above all, in the long
      undisturbed endurance of this arrangement, and in its
      reduplication in the still waters of the tarn. Its evidence—the
      evidence of the sentience—was to be seen, he said, (and I here
      started as he spoke,) in the gradual yet certain condensation of
      an atmosphere of their own about the waters and the walls. The
      result was discoverable, he added, in that silent, yet
      importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had
      moulded the destinies of his family, and which made _him_ what I
      now saw him—what he was. Such opinions need no comment, and I
      will make none.

* Watson, Dr. Percival, Spallanzani, and especially the Bishop of
      Landaff.—See “Chemical Essays,” vol v.

Our books—the books which, for years, had formed no small portion
      of the mental existence of the invalid—were, as might be
      supposed, in strict keeping with this character of phantasm. We
      pored together over such works as the Ververt et Chartreuse of
      Gresset; the Belphegor of Machiavelli; the Heaven and Hell of
      Swedenborg; the Subterranean Voyage of Nicholas Klimm by Holberg;
      the Chiromancy of Robert Flud, of Jean D’Indaginé, and of De la
      Chambre; the Journey into the Blue Distance of Tieck; and the
      City of the Sun of Campanella. One favorite volume was a small
      octavo edition of the _Directorium Inquisitorium_, by the
      Dominican Eymeric de Gironne; and there were passages in
      Pomponius Mela, about the old African Satyrs and OEgipans, over
      which Usher would sit dreaming for hours. His chief delight,
      however, was found in the perusal of an exceedingly rare and
      curious book in quarto Gothic—the manual of a forgotten
      church—the _Vigiliae Mortuorum secundum Chorum Ecclesiae
      Maguntinae_.