I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work, and of
      its probable influence upon the hypochondriac, when, one evening,
      having informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was no more,
      he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight,
      (previously to its final interment,) in one of the numerous
      vaults within the main walls of the building. The worldly reason,
      however, assigned for this singular proceeding, was one which I
      did not feel at liberty to dispute. The brother had been led to
      his resolution (so he told me) by consideration of the unusual
      character of the malady of the deceased, of certain obtrusive and
      eager inquiries on the part of her medical men, and of the remote
      and exposed situation of the burial-ground of the family. I will
      not deny that when I called to mind the sinister countenance of
      the person whom I met upon the staircase, on the day of my
      arrival at the house, I had no desire to oppose what I regarded
      as at best but a harmless, and by no means an unnatural,
      precaution.

At the request of Usher, I personally aided him in the
      arrangements for the temporary entombment. The body having been
      encoffined, we two alone bore it to its rest. The vault in which
      we placed it (and which had been so long unopened that our
      torches, half smothered in its oppressive atmosphere, gave us
      little opportunity for investigation) was small, damp, and
      entirely without means of admission for light; lying, at great
      depth, immediately beneath that portion of the building in which
      was my own sleeping apartment. It had been used, apparently, in
      remote feudal times, for the worst purposes of a donjon-keep,
      and, in later days, as a place of deposit for powder, or some
      other highly combustible substance, as a portion of its floor,
      and the whole interior of a long archway through which we reached
      it, were carefully sheathed with copper. The door, of massive
      iron, had been, also, similarly protected. Its immense weight
      caused an unusually sharp grating sound, as it moved upon its
      hinges.