Having deposited our mournful burden upon tressels within this
      region of horror, we partially turned aside the yet unscrewed lid
      of the coffin, and looked upon the face of the tenant. A striking
      similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my
      attention; and Usher, divining, perhaps, my thoughts, murmured
      out some few words from which I learned that the deceased and
      himself had been twins, and that sympathies of a scarcely
      intelligible nature had always existed between them. Our glances,
      however, rested not long upon the dead—for we could not regard
      her unawed. The disease which had thus entombed the lady in the
      maturity of youth, had left, as usual in all maladies of a
      strictly cataleptical character, the mockery of a faint blush
      upon the bosom and the face, and that suspiciously lingering
      smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death. We replaced and
      screwed down the lid, and, having secured the door of iron, made
      our way, with toil, into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of
      the upper portion of the house.

And now, some days of bitter grief having elapsed, an observable
      change came over the features of the mental disorder of my
      friend. His ordinary manner had vanished. His ordinary
      occupations were neglected or forgotten. He roamed from chamber
      to chamber with hurried, unequal, and objectless step. The pallor
      of his countenance had assumed, if possible, a more ghastly
      hue—but the luminousness of his eye had utterly gone out. The
      once occasional huskiness of his tone was heard no more; and a
      tremulous quaver, as if of extreme terror, habitually
      characterized his utterance. There were times, indeed, when I
      thought his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some
      oppressive secret, to divulge which he struggled for the
      necessary courage. At times, again, I was obliged to resolve all
      into the mere inexplicable vagaries of madness, for I beheld him
      gazing upon vacancy for long hours, in an attitude of the
      profoundest attention, as if listening to some imaginary sound.
      It was no wonder that his condition terrified—that it infected
      me. I felt creeping upon me, by slow yet certain degrees, the
      wild influences of his own fantastic yet impressive
      superstitions.