It was, especially, upon retiring to bed late in the night of the
      seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady Madeline
      within the donjon, that I experienced the full power of such
      feelings. Sleep came not near my couch—while the hours waned and
      waned away. I struggled to reason off the nervousness which had
      dominion over me. I endeavored to believe that much, if not all
      of what I felt, was due to the bewildering influence of the
      gloomy furniture of the room—of the dark and tattered draperies,
      which, tortured into motion by the breath of a rising tempest,
      swayed fitfully to and fro upon the walls, and rustled uneasily
      about the decorations of the bed. But my efforts were fruitless.
      An irrepressible tremor gradually pervaded my frame; and, at
      length, there sat upon my very heart an incubus of utterly
      causeless alarm. Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle, I
      uplifted myself upon the pillows, and, peering earnestly within
      the intense darkness of the chamber, harkened—I know not why,
      except that an instinctive spirit prompted me—to certain low and
      indefinite sounds which came, through the pauses of the storm, at
      long intervals, I knew not whence. Overpowered by an intense
      sentiment of horror, unaccountable yet unendurable, I threw on my
      clothes with haste (for I felt that I should sleep no more during
      the night), and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable
      condition into which I had fallen, by pacing rapidly to and fro
      through the apartment.

I had taken but few turns in this manner, when a light step on an
      adjoining staircase arrested my attention. I presently recognised
      it as that of Usher. In an instant afterward he rapped, with a
      gentle touch, at my door, and entered, bearing a lamp. His
      countenance was, as usual, cadaverously wan—but, moreover, there
      was a species of mad hilarity in his eyes—an evidently restrained
      _hysteria_ in his whole demeanor. His air appalled me—but
      anything was preferable to the solitude which I had so long
      endured, and I even welcomed his presence as a relief.

“And you have not seen it?” he said abruptly, after having stared
      about him for some moments in silence—“you have not then seen
      it?—but, stay! you shall.” Thus speaking, and having carefully
      shaded his lamp, he hurried to one of the casements, and threw it
      freely open to the storm.