The impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our
      feet. It was, indeed, a tempestuous yet sternly beautiful night,
      and one wildly singular in its terror and its beauty. A whirlwind
      had apparently collected its force in our vicinity; for there
      were frequent and violent alterations in the direction of the
      wind; and the exceeding density of the clouds (which hung so low
      as to press upon the turrets of the house) did not prevent our
      perceiving the life-like velocity with which they flew careering
      from all points against each other, without passing away into the
      distance. I say that even their exceeding density did not prevent
      our perceiving this—yet we had no glimpse of the moon or
      stars—nor was there any flashing forth of the lightning. But the
      under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor, as well as
      all terrestrial objects immediately around us, were glowing in
      the unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible
      gaseous exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion.

“You must not—you shall not behold this!” said I, shudderingly,
      to Usher, as I led him, with a gentle violence, from the window
      to a seat. “These appearances, which bewilder you, are merely
      electrical phenomena not uncommon—or it may be that they have
      their ghastly origin in the rank miasma of the tarn. Let us close
      this casement;—the air is chilling and dangerous to your frame.
      Here is one of your favorite romances. I will read, and you shall
      listen;—and so we will pass away this terrible night together.”

The antique volume which I had taken up was the “Mad Trist” of
      Sir Launcelot Canning; but I had called it a favorite of Usher’s
      more in sad jest than in earnest; for, in truth, there is little
      in its uncouth and unimaginative prolixity which could have had
      interest for the lofty and spiritual ideality of my friend. It
      was, however, the only book immediately at hand; and I indulged a
      vague hope that the excitement which now agitated the
      hypochondriac, might find relief (for the history of mental
      disorder is full of similar anomalies) even in the extremeness of
      the folly which I should read. Could I have judged, indeed, by
      the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he harkened, or
      apparently harkened, to the words of the tale, I might well have
      congratulated myself upon the success of my design.

I had arrived at that well-known portion of the story where
      Ethelred, the hero of the Trist, having sought in vain for
      peaceable admission into the dwelling of the hermit, proceeds to
      make good an entrance by force. Here, it will be remembered, the
      words of the narrative run thus: