Oppressed, as I certainly was, upon the occurrence of this second
      and most extraordinary coincidence, by a thousand conflicting
      sensations, in which wonder and extreme terror were predominant,
      was by no means certain that he had noticed the sounds in
      question; although, assuredly, a strange alteration had, during
      the last few minutes, taken place in his demeanor. From a
      position fronting my own, he had gradually brought round his
      chair, so as to sit with his face to the door of the chamber; and
      thus I could but partially perceive his features, although I saw
      that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring inaudibly. His
      head had dropped upon his breast—yet I knew that he was not
      asleep, from the wide and rigid opening of the eye as I caught a
      glance of it in profile. The motion of his body, too, was at
      variance with this idea—for he rocked from side to side with a
      gentle yet constant and uniform sway. Having rapidly taken notice
      of all this, I resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot, which thus
      proceeded:

“And now, the champion, having escaped from the terrible fury of
      the dragon, bethinking himself of the brazen shield, and of the
      breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it, removed the
      carcass from out of the way before him, and approached valorously
      over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was
      upon the wall; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming,
      but fell down at his feet upon the silver floor, with a mighty
      great and terrible ringing sound.”

No sooner had these syllables passed my lips, than—as if a shield
      of brass had indeed, at the moment, fallen heavily upon a floor
      of silver—I became aware of a distinct, hollow, metallic, and
      clangorous, yet apparently muffled reverberation. Completely
      unnerved, I leaped to my feet; but the measured rocking movement
      of Usher was undisturbed. I rushed to the chair in which he sat.
      His eyes were bent fixedly before him, and throughout his whole
      countenance there reigned a stony rigidity. But, as I placed my
      hand upon his shoulder, there came a strong shudder over his
      whole person; a sickly smile quivered about his lips; and I saw
      that he spoke in a low, hurried, and gibbering murmur, as if
      unconscious of my presence. Bending closely over him, I at length
      drank in the hideous import of his words.