“Not hear it?—yes, I hear it, and _have_ heard it.
      Long—long—long—many minutes, many hours, many days, have I heard
      it—yet I dared not—oh, pity me, miserable wretch that I am!—I
      dared not—I _dared_ not speak! _We have put her living in the
      tomb!_ Said I not that my senses were acute? I _now_ tell you
      that I heard her first feeble movements in the hollow coffin. I
      heard them—many, many days ago—yet I dared not—_I dared not
      speak!_ And now—to-night—Ethelred—ha! ha!—the breaking of the
      hermit’s door, and the death-cry of the dragon, and the clangor
      of the shield!—say, rather, the rending of her coffin, and the
      grating of the iron hinges of her prison, and her struggles
      within the coppered archway of the vault! Oh whither shall I fly?
      Will she not be here anon? Is she not hurrying to upbraid me for
      my haste? Have I not heard her footstep on the stair? Do I not
      distinguish that heavy and horrible beating of her heart?
      Madman!”—here he sprang furiously to his feet, and shrieked out
      his syllables, as if in the effort he were giving up his
      soul—“_Madman! I tell you that she now stands without the door!_”

As if in the superhuman energy of his utterance there had been
      found the potency of a spell—the huge antique pannels to which
      the speaker pointed, threw slowly back, upon the instant, their
      ponderous and ebony jaws. It was the work of the rushing gust—but
      then without those doors there _did_ stand the lofty and
      enshrouded figure of the lady Madeline of Usher. There was blood
      upon her white robes, and the evidence of some bitter struggle
      upon every portion of her emaciated frame. For a moment she
      remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon the
      threshold—then, with a low moaning cry, fell heavily inward upon
      the person of her brother, and in her violent and now final
      death-agonies, bore him to the floor a corpse, and a victim to
      the terrors he had anticipated.

From that chamber, and from that mansion, I fled aghast. The
      storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I found myself
      crossing the old causeway. Suddenly there shot along the path a
      wild light, and I turned to see whence a gleam so unusual could
      have issued; for the vast house and its shadows were alone behind
      me. The radiance was that of the full, setting, and blood-red
      moon, which now shone vividly through that once
      barely-discernible fissure, of which I have before spoken as
      extending from the roof of the building, in a zigzag direction,
      to the base. While I gazed, this fissure rapidly widened—there
      came a fierce breath of the whirlwind—the entire orb of the
      satellite burst at once upon my sight—my brain reeled as I saw
      the mighty walls rushing asunder—there was a long tumultuous
      shouting sound like the voice of a thousand waters—and the deep
      and dank tarn at my feet closed sullenly and silently over the
      fragments of the “_House of Usher_.”

SILENCE—A FABLE