“The mountain pinnacles slumber; valleys, crags and caves _are
     silent_.”

“Listen to me,” said the Demon as he placed his hand upon my
      nor silence.

“The waters of the river have a saffron and sickly hue; and they
      flow not onwards to the sea, but palpitate forever and forever
      beneath the red eye of the sun with a tumultuous and convulsive
      motion. For many miles on either side of the river’s oozy bed is
      a pale desert of gigantic water-lilies. They sigh one unto the
      other in that solitude, and stretch towards the heaven their long
      and ghastly necks, and nod to and fro their everlasting heads.
      And there is an indistinct murmur which cometh out from among
      them like the rushing of subterrene water. And they sigh one unto
      the other.

“But there is a boundary to their realm—the boundary of the dark,
      horrible, lofty forest. There, like the waves about the Hebrides,
      the low underwood is agitated continually. But there is no wind
      throughout the heaven. And the tall primeval trees rock eternally
      hither and thither with a crashing and mighty sound. And from
      their high summits, one by one, drop everlasting dews. And at the
      roots strange poisonous flowers lie writhing in perturbed
      slumber. And overhead, with a rustling and loud noise, the gray
      clouds rush westwardly forever, until they roll, a cataract, over
      the fiery wall of the horizon. But there is no wind throughout
      the heaven. And by the shores of the river Zaire there is neither
      quiet nor silence.

“It was night, and the rain fell; and falling, it was rain, but,
      having fallen, it was blood. And I stood in the morass among the
      tall and the rain fell upon my head—and the lilies sighed one
      unto the other in the solemnity of their desolation.

“And, all at once, the moon arose through the thin ghastly mist,
      and was crimson in color. And mine eyes fell upon a huge gray
      rock which stood by the shore of the river, and was lighted by
      the light of the moon. And the rock was gray, and ghastly, and
      tall,—and the rock was gray. Upon its front were characters
      engraven in the stone; and I walked through the morass of
      water-lilies, until I came close unto the shore, that I might
      read the characters upon the stone. But I could not decypher
      them. And I was going back into the morass, when the moon shone
      with a fuller red, and I turned and looked again upon the rock,
      and upon the characters, and the characters were DESOLATION.