“And I looked upwards, and there stood a man upon the summit of
      the rock; and I hid myself among the water-lilies that I might
      discover the actions of the man. And the man was tall and stately
      in form, and was wrapped up from his shoulders to his feet in the
      toga of old Rome. And the outlines of his figure were
      indistinct—but his features were the features of a deity; for the
      mantle of the night, and of the mist, and of the moon, and of the
      dew, had left uncovered the features of his face. And his brow
      was lofty with thought, and his eye wild with care; and, in the
      few furrows upon his cheek I read the fables of sorrow, and
      weariness, and disgust with mankind, and a longing after
      solitude.

“And the man sat upon the rock, and leaned his head upon his
      hand, and looked out upon the desolation. He looked down into the
      low unquiet shrubbery, and up into the tall primeval trees, and
      up higher at the rustling heaven, and into the crimson moon. And
      I lay close within shelter of the lilies, and observed the
      actions of the man. And the man trembled in the solitude;—but the
      night waned, and he sat upon the rock.

“And the man turned his attention from the heaven, and looked out
      upon the dreary river Zaire, and upon the yellow ghastly waters,
      and upon the pale legions of the water-lilies. And the man
      listened to the sighs of the water-lilies, and to the murmur that
      came up from among them. And I lay close within my covert and
      observed the actions of the man. And the man trembled in the
      solitude;—but the night waned and he sat upon the rock.

“Then I went down into the recesses of the morass, and waded afar
      in among the wilderness of the lilies, and called unto the
      hippopotami which dwelt among the fens in the recesses of the
      morass. And the hippopotami heard my call, and came, with the
      behemoth, unto the foot of the rock, and roared loudly and
      fearfully beneath the moon. And I lay close within my covert and
      observed the actions of the man. And the man trembled in the
      solitude;—but the night waned and he sat upon the rock.

“Then I cursed the elements with the curse of tumult; and a
      frightful tempest gathered in the heaven where, before, there had
      been no wind. And the heaven became livid with the violence of
      the tempest—and the rain beat upon the head of the man—and the
      floods of the river came down—and the river was tormented into
      foam—and the water-lilies shrieked within their beds—and the
      forest crumbled before the wind—and the thunder rolled—and the
      lightning fell—and the rock rocked to its foundation. And I lay
      close within my covert and observed the actions of the man. And
      the man trembled in the solitude;—but the night waned and he sat
      upon the rock.