“Then I grew angry and cursed, with the curse of silence, the
      river, and the lilies, and the wind, and the forest, and the
      heaven, and the thunder, and the sighs of the water-lilies. And
      they became accursed, and were still. And the moon ceased to
      totter up its pathway to heaven—and the thunder died away—and the
      lightning did not flash—and the clouds hung motionless—and the
      waters sunk to their level and remained—and the trees ceased to
      rock—and the water-lilies sighed no more—and the murmur was heard
      no longer from among them, nor any shadow of sound throughout the
      vast illimitable desert. And I looked upon the characters of the
      rock, and they were changed; and the characters were SILENCE.

“And mine eyes fell upon the countenance of the man, and his
      countenance was wan with terror. And, hurriedly, he raised his
      head from his hand, and stood forth upon the rock and listened.
      But there was no voice throughout the vast illimitable desert,
      and the characters upon the rock were SILENCE. And the man
      shuddered, and turned his face away, and fled afar off, in haste,
      so that I beheld him no more.”

Now there are fine tales in the volumes of the Magi—in the
      iron-bound, melancholy volumes of the Magi. Therein, I say, are
      glorious histories of the Heaven, and of the Earth, and of the
      mighty sea—and of the Genii that over-ruled the sea, and the
      earth, and the lofty heaven. There was much lore too in the
      sayings which were said by the Sybils; and holy, holy things were
      heard of old by the dim leaves that trembled around Dodona—but,
      as Allah liveth, that fable which the Demon told me as he sat by
      my side in the shadow of the tomb, I hold to be the most
      wonderful of all! And as the Demon made an end of his story, he
      fell back within the cavity of the tomb and laughed. And I could
      not laugh with the Demon, and he cursed me because I could not
      laugh. And the lynx which dwelleth forever in the tomb, came out
      therefrom, and lay down at the feet of the Demon, and looked at
      him steadily in the face.

THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH.

The “Red Death” had long devastated the country. No pestilence
      had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its Avatar and
      its seal—the redness and the horror of blood. There were sharp
      pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the
      pores, with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon the body and
      especially upon the face of the victim, were the pest ban which
      shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his
      fellow-men. And the whole seizure, progress and termination of
      the disease, were the incidents of half an hour.