It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade. But first let me tell
      of the rooms in which it was held. There were seven—an imperial
      suite. In many palaces, however, such suites form a long and
      straight vista, while the folding doors slide back nearly to the
      walls on either hand, so that the view of the whole extent is
      scarcely impeded. Here the case was very different; as might have
      been expected from the duke’s love of the bizarre. The apartments
      were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little
      more than one at a time. There was a sharp turn at every twenty
      or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel effect. To the right
      and left, in the middle of each wall, a tall and narrow Gothic
      window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the
      windings of the suite. These windows were of stained glass whose
      color varied in accordance with the prevailing hue of the
      decorations of the chamber into which it opened. That at the
      eastern extremity was hung, for example, in blue—and vividly blue
      were its windows. The second chamber was purple in its ornaments
      and tapestries, and here the panes were purple. The third was
      green throughout, and so were the casements. The fourth was
      furnished and lighted with orange—the fifth with white—the sixth
      with violet. The seventh apartment was closely shrouded in black
      velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and down the
      walls, falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same material
      and hue. But in this chamber only, the color of the windows
      failed to correspond with the decorations. The panes here were
      scarlet—a deep blood color. Now in no one of the seven apartments
      was there any lamp or candelabrum, amid the profusion of golden
      ornaments that lay scattered to and fro or depended from the
      roof. There was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or
      candle within the suite of chambers. But in the corridors that
      followed the suite, there stood, opposite to each window, a heavy
      tripod, bearing a brazier of fire that projected its rays through
      the tinted glass and so glaringly illumined the room. And thus
      were produced a multitude of gaudy and fantastic appearances. But
      in the western or black chamber the effect of the fire-light that
      streamed upon the dark hangings through the blood-tinted panes,
      was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a look upon the
      countenances of those who entered, that there were few of the
      company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all.