It was in this apartment, also, that there stood against the
      western wall, a gigantic clock of ebony. Its pendulum swung to
      and fro with a dull, heavy, monotonous clang; and when the
      minute-hand made the circuit of the face, and the hour was to be
      stricken, there came from the brazen lungs of the clock a sound
      which was clear and loud and deep and exceedingly musical, but of
      so peculiar a note and emphasis that, at each lapse of an hour,
      the musicians of the orchestra were constrained to pause,
      momentarily, in their performance, to hearken to the sound; and
      thus the waltzers perforce ceased their evolutions; and there was
      a brief disconcert of the whole gay company; and, while the
      chimes of the clock yet rang, it was observed that the giddiest
      grew pale, and the more aged and sedate passed their hands over
      their brows as if in confused reverie or meditation. But when the
      echoes had fully ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the
      assembly; the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at
      their own nervousness and folly, and made whispering vows, each
      to the other, that the next chiming of the clock should produce
      in them no similar emotion; and then, after the lapse of sixty
      minutes (which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of
      the Time that flies), there came yet another chiming of the
      clock, and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and
      meditation as before.

But, in spite of these things, it was a gay and magnificent
      revel. The tastes of the duke were peculiar. He had a fine eye
      for colors and effects. He disregarded the decora of mere
      fashion. His plans were bold and fiery, and his conceptions
      glowed with barbaric lustre. There are some who would have
      thought him mad. His followers felt that he was not. It was
      necessary to hear and see and touch him to be sure that he was
      not.