He had directed, in great part, the moveable embellishments of
      the seven chambers, upon occasion of this great fête; and it was
      his own guiding taste which had given character to the
      masqueraders. Be sure they were grotesque. There were much glare
      and glitter and piquancy and phantasm—much of what has been since
      seen in “Hernani.” There were arabesque figures with unsuited
      limbs and appointments. There were delirious fancies such as the
      madman fashions. There was much of the beautiful, much of the
      wanton, much of the bizarre, something of the terrible, and not a
      little of that which might have excited disgust. To and fro in
      the seven chambers there stalked, in fact, a multitude of dreams.
      And these—the dreams—writhed in and about, taking hue from the
      rooms, and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the
      echo of their steps. And, anon, there strikes the ebony clock
      which stands in the hall of the velvet. And then, for a moment,
      all is still, and all is silent save the voice of the clock. The
      dreams are stiff-frozen as they stand. But the echoes of the
      chime die away—they have endured but an instant—and a light,
      half-subdued laughter floats after them as they depart. And now
      again the music swells, and the dreams live, and writhe to and
      fro more merrily than ever, taking hue from the many-tinted
      windows through which stream the rays from the tripods. But to
      the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven, there are
      now none of the maskers who venture; for the night is waning
      away; and there flows a ruddier light through the blood-colored
      panes; and the blackness of the sable drapery appals; and to him
      whose foot falls upon the sable carpet, there comes from the near
      clock of ebony a muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any
      which reaches their ears who indulge in the more remote gaieties
      of the other apartments.