But these other apartments were densely crowded, and in them beat
      feverishly the heart of life. And the revel went whirlingly on,
      until at length there commenced the sounding of midnight upon the
      clock. And then the music ceased, as I have told; and the
      evolutions of the waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy
      cessation of all things as before. But now there were twelve
      strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock; and thus it
      happened, perhaps, that more of thought crept, with more of time,
      into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled.
      And thus, too, it happened, perhaps, that before the last echoes
      of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence, there were many
      individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of
      the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention
      of no single individual before. And the rumor of this new
      presence having spread itself whisperingly around, there arose at
      length from the whole company a buzz, or murmur, expressive of
      disapprobation and surprise—then, finally, of terror, of horror,
      and of disgust.

In an assembly of phantasms such as I have painted, it may well
      be supposed that no ordinary appearance could have excited such
      sensation. In truth the masquerade license of the night was
      nearly unlimited; but the figure in question had out-Heroded
      Herod, and gone beyond the bounds of even the prince’s indefinite
      decorum. There are chords in the hearts of the most reckless
      which cannot be touched without emotion. Even with the utterly
      lost, to whom life and death are equally jests, there are matters
      of which no jest can be made. The whole company, indeed, seemed
      now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the
      stranger neither wit nor propriety existed. The figure was tall
      and gaunt, and shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of
      the grave. The mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly
      to resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the
      closest scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat.
      And yet all this might have been endured, if not approved, by the
      mad revellers around. But the mummer had gone so far as to assume
      the type of the Red Death. His vesture was dabbled in blood—and
      his broad brow, with all the features of the face, was
      besprinkled with the scarlet horror.

When the eyes of Prince Prospero fell upon this spectral image
      (which with a slow and solemn movement, as if more fully to
      sustain its role, stalked to and fro among the waltzers) he was
      seen to be convulsed, in the first moment with a strong shudder
      either of terror or distaste; but, in the next, his brow reddened
      with rage.

“Who dares?” he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near
      him—“who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery? Seize him
      and unmask him—that we may know whom we have to hang at sunrise,
      from the battlements!”