It was in the eastern or blue chamber in which stood the Prince
      Prospero as he uttered these words. They rang throughout the
      seven rooms loudly and clearly—for the prince was a bold and
      robust man, and the music had become hushed at the waving of his
      hand.

It was in the blue room where stood the prince, with a group of
      pale courtiers by his side. At first, as he spoke, there was a
      slight rushing movement of this group in the direction of the
      intruder, who at the moment was also near at hand, and now, with
      deliberate and stately step, made closer approach to the speaker.
      But from a certain nameless awe with which the mad assumptions of
      the mummer had inspired the whole party, there were found none
      who put forth hand to seize him; so that, unimpeded, he passed
      within a yard of the prince’s person; and, while the vast
      assembly, as if with one impulse, shrank from the centres of the
      rooms to the walls, he made his way uninterruptedly, but with the
      same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from
      the first, through the blue chamber to the purple—through the
      purple to the green—through the green to the orange—through this
      again to the white—and even thence to the violet, ere a decided
      movement had been made to arrest him. It was then, however, that
      the Prince Prospero, maddening with rage and the shame of his own
      momentary cowardice, rushed hurriedly through the six chambers,
      while none followed him on account of a deadly terror that had
      seized upon all. He bore aloft a drawn dagger, and had
      approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three or four feet of
      the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained the
      extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted
      his pursuer. There was a sharp cry—and the dagger dropped
      gleaming upon the sable carpet, upon which, instantly afterwards,
      fell prostrate in death the Prince Prospero. Then, summoning the
      wild courage of despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw
      themselves into the black apartment, and, seizing the mummer,
      whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of
      the ebony clock, gasped in unutterable horror at finding the
      grave-cerements and corpse-like mask which they handled with so
      violent a rudeness, untenanted by any tangible form.

And now was acknowledged the presence of the Red Death. He had
      come like a thief in the night. And one by one dropped the
      revellers in the blood-bedewed halls of their revel, and died
      each in the despairing posture of his fall. And the life of the
      ebony clock went out with that of the last of the gay. And the
      flames of the tripods expired. And Darkness and Decay and the Red
      Death held illimitable dominion over all.

THE CASK OF AMONTILLADO.