“My friend, no. It is not the engagement, but the severe cold
      with which I perceive you are afflicted. The vaults are
      insufferably damp. They are encrusted with nitre.”

“Let us go, nevertheless. The cold is merely nothing.
      Amontillado! You have been imposed upon. And as for Luchesi, he
      cannot distinguish Sherry from Amontillado.”

Thus speaking, Fortunato possessed himself of my arm. Putting on
      a mask of black silk, and drawing a _roquelaire_ closely about my
      person, I suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo.

There were no attendants at home; they had absconded to make
      merry in honor of the time. I had told them that I should not
      return until the morning, and had given them explicit orders not
      to stir from the house. These orders were sufficient, I well
      knew, to insure their immediate disappearance, one and all, as
      soon as my back was turned.

I took from their sconces two flambeaux, and giving one to
      Fortunato, bowed him through several suites of rooms to the
      archway that led into the vaults. I passed down a long and
      winding staircase, requesting him to be cautious as he followed.
      We came at length to the foot of the descent, and stood together
      on the damp ground of the catacombs of the Montresors.

The gait of my friend was unsteady, and the bells upon his cap
      jingled as he strode.

“The pipe,” said he.

“It is farther on,” said I; “but observe the white web-work which
      gleams from these cavern walls.”

He turned towards me, and looked into my eyes with two filmy orbs
      that distilled the rheum of intoxication.

“Nitre?” he asked, at length.

“Nitre,” I replied. “How long have you had that cough?”

“Ugh! ugh! ugh!—ugh! ugh! ugh!—ugh! ugh! ugh!—ugh! ugh! ugh!—ugh!
      ugh! ugh!”

My poor friend found it impossible to reply for many minutes.

“It is nothing,” he said, at last.

“Come,” I said, with decision, “we will go back; your health is
      precious. You are rich, respected, admired, beloved; you are
      happy, as once I was. You are a man to be missed. For me it is no
      matter. We will go back; you will be ill, and I cannot be
      responsible. Besides, there is Luchesi—”

“Enough,” he said; “the cough is a mere nothing; it will not kill
      me. I shall not die of a cough.”

“True—true,” I replied; “and, indeed, I had no intention of
      alarming you unnecessarily—but you should use all proper caution.
      A draught of this Medoc will defend us from the damps.”

Here I knocked off the neck of a bottle which I drew from a long
      row of its fellows that lay upon the mould.

“Drink,” I said, presenting him the wine.

He raised it to his lips with a leer. He paused and nodded to me
      familiarly, while his bells jingled.

“I drink,” he said, “to the buried that repose around us.”

“And I to your long life.”

He again took my arm, and we proceeded.

“These vaults,” he said, “are extensive.”