“The Montresors,” I replied, “were a great and numerous family.”

“I forget your arms.”

“A huge human foot d’or, in a field azure; the foot crushes a
      serpent rampant whose fangs are imbedded in the heel.”

“And the motto?”

“_Nemo me impune lacessit_.”

“Good!” he said.

The wine sparkled in his eyes and the bells jingled. My own fancy
      grew warm with the Medoc. We had passed through walls of piled
      bones, with casks and puncheons intermingling, into the inmost
      recesses of the catacombs. I paused again, and this time I made
      bold to seize Fortunato by an arm above the elbow.

“The nitre!” I said: “see, it increases. It hangs like moss upon
      the vaults. We are below the river’s bed. The drops of moisture
      trickle among the bones. Come, we will go back ere it is too
      late. Your cough—”

“It is nothing,” he said; “let us go on. But first, another
      draught of the Medoc.”

I broke and reached him a flagon of De Grâve. He emptied it at a
      breath. His eyes flashed with a fierce light. He laughed and
      threw the bottle upwards with a gesticulation I did not
      understand.

I looked at him in surprise. He repeated the movement—a grotesque
      one.

“You do not comprehend?” he said.

“Not I,” I replied.

“Then you are not of the brotherhood.”

“How?”

“You are not of the masons.”

“Yes, yes,” I said, “yes, yes.”

“You? Impossible! A mason?”

“A mason,” I replied.

“A sign,” he said.

“It is this,” I answered, producing a trowel from beneath the
      folds of my _roquelaire_.

“You jest,” he exclaimed, recoiling a few paces. “But let us
      proceed to the Amontillado.”

“Be it so,” I said, replacing the tool beneath the cloak, and
      again offering him my arm. He leaned upon it heavily. We
      continued our route in search of the Amontillado. We passed
      through a range of low arches, descended, passed on, and
      descending again, arrived at a deep crypt, in which the foulness
      of the air caused our flambeaux rather to glow than flame.

At the most remote end of the crypt there appeared another less
      spacious. Its walls had been lined with human remains, piled to
      the vault overhead, in the fashion of the great catacombs of
      Paris. Three sides of this interior crypt were still ornamented
      in this manner. From the fourth the bones had been thrown down,
      and lay promiscuously upon the earth, forming at one point a
      mound of some size. Within the wall thus exposed by the
      displacing of the bones, we perceived a still interior recess, in
      depth about four feet, in width three, in height six or seven. It
      seemed to have been constructed for no especial use in itself,
      but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal
      supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one of
      their circumscribing walls of solid granite.