It was in vain that Fortunato, uplifting his dull torch,
      endeavored to pry into the depths of the recess. Its termination
      the feeble light did not enable us to see.

“Proceed,” I said; “herein is the Amontillado. As for Luchesi—”

“He is an ignoramus,” interrupted my friend, as he stepped
      unsteadily forward, while I followed immediately at his heels. In
      an instant he had reached the extremity of the niche, and finding
      his progress arrested by the rock, stood stupidly bewildered. A
      moment more and I had fettered him to the granite. In its surface
      were two iron staples, distant from each other about two feet,
      horizontally. From one of these depended a short chain, from the
      other a padlock. Throwing the links about his waist, it was but
      the work of a few seconds to secure it. He was too much astounded
      to resist. Withdrawing the key I stepped back from the recess.

“Pass your hand,” I said, “over the wall; you cannot help feeling
      the nitre. Indeed it is _very_ damp. Once more let me _implore_
      you to return. No? Then I must positively leave you. But I must
      first render you all the little attentions in my power.”

“The Amontillado!” ejaculated my friend, not yet recovered from
      his astonishment.

“True,” I replied; “the Amontillado.”

As I said these words I busied myself among the pile of bones of
      which I have before spoken. Throwing them aside, I soon uncovered
      a quantity of building stone and mortar. With these materials and
      with the aid of my trowel, I began vigorously to wall up the
      entrance of the niche.

I had scarcely laid the first tier of my masonry when I
      discovered that the intoxication of Fortunato had in a great
      measure worn off. The earliest indication I had of this was a low
      moaning cry from the depth of the recess. It was _not_ the cry of
      a drunken man. There was then a long and obstinate silence. I
      laid the second tier, and the third, and the fourth; and then I
      heard the furious vibrations of the chain. The noise lasted for
      several minutes, during which, that I might hearken to it with
      the more satisfaction, I ceased my labors and sat down upon the
      bones. When at last the clanking subsided, I resumed the trowel,
      and finished without interruption the fifth, the sixth, and the
      seventh tier. The wall was now nearly upon a level with my
      breast. I again paused, and holding the flambeaux over the
      mason-work, threw a few feeble rays upon the figure within.