In the consideration of the faculties and impulses—of the prima
      mobilia of the human soul, the phrenologists have failed to make
      room for a propensity which, although obviously existing as a
      radical, primitive, irreducible sentiment, has been equally
      overlooked by all the moralists who have preceded them. In the
      pure arrogance of the reason, we have all overlooked it. We have
      suffered its existence to escape our senses, solely through want
      of belief—of faith;—whether it be faith in Revelation, or faith
      in the Kabbala. The idea of it has never occurred to us, simply
      because of its supererogation. We saw no need of the impulse—for
      the propensity. We could not perceive its necessity. We could not
      understand, that is to say, we could not have understood, had the
      notion of this primum mobile ever obtruded itself;—we could not
      have understood in what manner it might be made to further the
      objects of humanity, either temporal or eternal. It cannot be
      denied that phrenology and, in great measure, all
      metaphysicianism have been concocted a priori. The intellectual
      or logical man, rather than the understanding or observant man,
      set himself to imagine designs—to dictate purposes to God. Having
      thus fathomed, to his satisfaction, the intentions of Jehovah,
      out of these intentions he built his innumerable systems of mind.
      In the matter of phrenology, for example, we first determined,
      naturally enough, that it was the design of the Deity that man
      should eat. We then assigned to man an organ of alimentiveness,
      and this organ is the scourge with which the Deity compels man,
      will-I nill-I, into eating. Secondly, having settled it to be
      God’s will that man should continue his species, we discovered an
      organ of amativeness, forthwith. And so with combativeness, with
      ideality, with causality, with constructiveness,—so, in short,
      with every organ, whether representing a propensity, a moral
      sentiment, or a faculty of the pure intellect. And in these
      arrangements of the Principia of human action, the Spurzheimites,
      whether right or wrong, in part, or upon the whole, have but
      followed, in principle, the footsteps of their predecessors;
      deducing and establishing every thing from the preconceived
      destiny of man, and upon the ground of the objects of his
      Creator.

It would have been wiser, it would have been safer, to classify
      (if classify we must) upon the basis of what man usually or
      occasionally did, and was always occasionally doing, rather than
      upon the basis of what we took it for granted the Deity intended
      him to do. If we cannot comprehend God in his visible works, how
      then in his inconceivable thoughts, that call the works into
      being? If we cannot understand him in his objective creatures,
      how then in his substantive moods and phases of creation?