Induction, _a posteriori_, would have brought phrenology to
      admit, as an innate and primitive principle of human action, a
      paradoxical something, which we may call _perverseness_, for want
      of a more characteristic term. In the sense I intend, it is, in
      fact, a _mobile_ without motive, a motive not _motivirt_. Through
      its promptings we act without comprehensible object; or, if this
      shall be understood as a contradiction in terms, we may so far
      modify the proposition as to say, that through its promptings we
      act, for the reason that we should _not_. In theory, no reason
      can be more unreasonable, but, in fact, there is none more
      strong. With certain minds, under certain conditions, it becomes
      absolutely irresistible. I am not more certain that I breathe,
      than that the assurance of the wrong or error of any action is
      often the one unconquerable _force_ which impels us, and alone
      impels us to its prosecution. Nor will this overwhelming tendency
      to do wrong for the wrong’s sake, admit of analysis, or
      resolution into ulterior elements. It is a radical, a primitive
      impulse—elementary. It will be said, I am aware, that when we
      persist in acts because we feel we should not persist in them,
      our conduct is but a modification of that which ordinarily
      springs from the combativeness of phrenology. But a glance will
      show the fallacy of this idea. The phrenological combativeness
      has for its essence, the necessity of self-defence. It is our
      safeguard against injury. Its principle regards our well-being;
      and thus the desire to be well is excited simultaneously with its
      development. It follows, that the desire to be well must be
      excited simultaneously with any principle which shall be merely a
      modification of combativeness, but in the case of that something
      which I term perverseness, the desire to be well is not only not
      aroused, but a strongly antagonistical sentiment exists.

An appeal to one’s own heart is, after all, the best reply to the
      sophistry just noticed. No one who trustingly consults and
      thoroughly questions his own soul, will be disposed to deny the
      entire radicalness of the propensity in question. It is not more
      incomprehensible than distinctive. There lives no man who at some
      period has not been tormented, for example, by an earnest desire
      to tantalize a listener by circumlocution. The speaker is aware
      that he displeases; he has every intention to please, he is
      usually curt, precise, and clear; the most laconic and luminous
      language is struggling for utterance upon his tongue; it is only
      with difficulty that he restrains himself from giving it flow; he
      dreads and deprecates the anger of him whom he addresses; yet,
      the thought strikes him, that by certain involutions and
      parentheses this anger may be engendered. That single thought is
      enough. The impulse increases to a wish, the wish to a desire,
      the desire to an uncontrollable longing, and the longing (to the
      deep regret and mortification of the speaker, and in defiance of
      all consequences) is indulged.