We stand upon the brink of a precipice. We peer into the abyss—we
      grow sick and dizzy. Our first impulse is to shrink from the
      danger. Unaccountably we remain. By slow degrees our sickness and
      dizziness and horror become merged in a cloud of unnamable
      feeling. By gradations, still more imperceptible, this cloud
      assumes shape, as did the vapor from the bottle out of which
      arose the genius in the Arabian Nights. But out of this our cloud
      upon the precipice’s edge, there grows into palpability, a shape,
      far more terrible than any genius or any demon of a tale, and yet
      it is but a thought, although a fearful one, and one which chills
      the very marrow of our bones with the fierceness of the delight
      of its horror. It is merely the idea of what would be our
      sensations during the sweeping precipitancy of a fall from such a
      height. And this fall—this rushing annihilation—for the very
      reason that it involves that one most ghastly and loathsome of
      all the most ghastly and loathsome images of death and suffering
      which have ever presented themselves to our imagination—for this
      very cause do we now the most vividly desire it. And because our
      reason violently deters us from the brink, therefore do we the
      most impetuously approach it. There is no passion in nature so
      demoniacally impatient, as that of him who, shuddering upon the
      edge of a precipice, thus meditates a plunge. To indulge, for a
      moment, in any attempt at thought, is to be inevitably lost; for
      reflection but urges us to forbear, and therefore it is, I say,
      that we cannot. If there be no friendly arm to check us, or if we
      fail in a sudden effort to prostrate ourselves backward from the
      abyss, we plunge, and are destroyed.

Examine these similar actions as we will, we shall find them
      resulting solely from the spirit of the Perverse. We perpetrate
      them because we feel that we should not. Beyond or behind this
      there is no intelligible principle; and we might, indeed, deem
      this perverseness a direct instigation of the Arch-Fiend, were it
      not occasionally known to operate in furtherance of good.

I have said thus much, that in some measure I may answer your
      question—that I may explain to you why I am here—that I may
      assign to you something that shall have at least the faint aspect
      of a cause for my wearing these fetters, and for my tenanting
      this cell of the condemned. Had I not been thus prolix, you might
      either have misunderstood me altogether, or, with the rabble,
      have fancied me mad. As it is, you will easily perceive that I am
      one of the many uncounted victims of the Imp of the Perverse.