It is impossible that any deed could have been wrought with a
      more thorough deliberation. For weeks, for months, I pondered
      upon the means of the murder. I rejected a thousand schemes,
      because their accomplishment involved a _chance_ of detection. At
      length, in reading some French memoirs, I found an account of a
      nearly fatal illness that occurred to Madame Pilau, through the
      agency of a candle accidentally poisoned. The idea struck my
      fancy at once. I knew my victim’s habit of reading in bed. I
      knew, too, that his apartment was narrow and ill-ventilated. But
      I need not vex you with impertinent details. I need not describe
      the easy artifices by which I substituted, in his bed-room
      candle-stand, a wax-light of my own making for the one which I
      there found. The next morning he was discovered dead in his bed,
      and the coroner’s verdict was—“Death by the visitation of God.”

Having inherited his estate, all went well with me for years. The
      idea of detection never once entered my brain. Of the remains of
      the fatal taper I had myself carefully disposed. I had left no
      shadow of a clew by which it would be possible to convict, or
      even to suspect me of the crime. It is inconceivable how rich a
      sentiment of satisfaction arose in my bosom as I reflected upon
      my absolute security. For a very long period of time I was
      accustomed to revel in this sentiment. It afforded me more real
      delight than all the mere worldly advantages accruing from my
      sin. But there arrived at length an epoch, from which the
      pleasurable feeling grew, by scarcely perceptible gradations,
      into a haunting and harassing thought. It harassed because it
      haunted. I could scarcely get rid of it for an instant. It is
      quite a common thing to be thus annoyed with the ringing in our
      ears, or rather in our memories, of the burthen of some ordinary
      song, or some unimpressive snatches from an opera. Nor will we be
      the less tormented if the song in itself be good, or the opera
      air meritorious. In this manner, at last, I would perpetually
      catch myself pondering upon my security, and repeating, in a low
      undertone, the phrase, “I am safe.”

One day, whilst sauntering along the streets, I arrested myself
      in the act of murmuring, half aloud, these customary syllables.
      In a fit of petulance, I remodelled them thus: “I am safe—I am
      safe—yes—if I be not fool enough to make open confession!”

No sooner had I spoken these words, than I felt an icy chill
      creep to my heart. I had had some experience in these fits of
      perversity (whose nature I have been at some trouble to explain),
      and I remembered well that in no instance I had successfully
      resisted their attacks. And now my own casual self-suggestion
      that I might possibly be fool enough to confess the murder of
      which I had been guilty, confronted me, as if the very ghost of
      him whom I had murdered—and beckoned me on to death.