“La musique,” says Marmontel, in those “Contes Moraux” (*1) which
      in all our translations, we have insisted upon calling “Moral
      Tales,” as if in mockery of their spirit—“la musique est le seul
      des talents qui jouissent de lui-même; tous les autres veulent
      des temoins.” He here confounds the pleasure derivable from sweet
      sounds with the capacity for creating them. No more than any
      other talent, is that for music susceptible of complete
      enjoyment, where there is no second party to appreciate its
      exercise. And it is only in common with other talents that it
      produces effects which may be fully enjoyed in solitude. The idea
      which the raconteur has either failed to entertain clearly, or
      has sacrificed in its expression to his national love of point,
      is, doubtless, the very tenable one that the higher order of
      music is the most thoroughly estimated when we are exclusively
      alone. The proposition, in this form, will be admitted at once by
      those who love the lyre for its own sake, and for its spiritual
      uses. But there is one pleasure still within the reach of fallen
      mortality and perhaps only one—which owes even more than does
      music to the accessory sentiment of seclusion. I mean the
      happiness experienced in the contemplation of natural scenery. In
      truth, the man who would behold aright the glory of God upon
      earth must in solitude behold that glory. To me, at least, the
      presence—not of human life only, but of life in any other form
      than that of the green things which grow upon the soil and are
      voiceless—is a stain upon the landscape—is at war with the genius
      of the scene. I love, indeed, to regard the dark valleys, and the
      gray rocks, and the waters that silently smile, and the forests
      that sigh in uneasy slumbers, and the proud watchful mountains
      that look down upon all,—I love to regard these as themselves but
      the colossal members of one vast animate and sentient whole—a
      whole whose form (that of the sphere) is the most perfect and
      most inclusive of all; whose path is among associate planets;
      whose meek handmaiden is the moon, whose mediate sovereign is the
      sun; whose life is eternity, whose thought is that of a God;
      whose enjoyment is knowledge; whose destinies are lost in
      immensity, whose cognizance of ourselves is akin with our own
      cognizance of the animalculae which infest the brain—a being
      which we, in consequence, regard as purely inanimate and material
      much in the same manner as these animalculae must thus regard us.