Our telescopes and our mathematical investigations assure us on
      every hand—notwithstanding the cant of the more ignorant of the
      priesthood—that space, and therefore that bulk, is an important
      consideration in the eyes of the Almighty. The cycles in which
      the stars move are those best adapted for the evolution, without
      collision, of the greatest possible number of bodies. The forms
      of those bodies are accurately such as, within a given surface,
      to include the greatest possible amount of matter;—while the
      surfaces themselves are so disposed as to accommodate a denser
      population than could be accommodated on the same surfaces
      otherwise arranged. Nor is it any argument against bulk being an
      object with God, that space itself is infinite; for there may be
      an infinity of matter to fill it. And since we see clearly that
      the endowment of matter with vitality is a principle—indeed, as
      far as our judgments extend, the leading principle in the
      operations of Deity,—it is scarcely logical to imagine it
      confined to the regions of the minute, where we daily trace it,
      and not extending to those of the august. As we find cycle within
      cycle without end,—yet all revolving around one far-distant
      centre which is the God-head, may we not analogically suppose in
      the same manner, life within life, the less within the greater,
      and all within the Spirit Divine? In short, we are madly erring,
      through self-esteem, in believing man, in either his temporal or
      future destinies, to be of more moment in the universe than that
      vast “clod of the valley” which he tills and contemns, and to
      which he denies a soul for no more profound reason than that he
      does not behold it in operation. (*2)

These fancies, and such as these, have always given to my
      meditations among the mountains and the forests, by the rivers
      and the ocean, a tinge of what the everyday world would not fail
      to term fantastic. My wanderings amid such scenes have been many,
      and far-searching, and often solitary; and the interest with
      which I have strayed through many a dim, deep valley, or gazed
      into the reflected Heaven of many a bright lake, has been an
      interest greatly deepened by the thought that I have strayed and
      gazed alone. What flippant Frenchman was it who said in allusion
      to the well-known work of Zimmerman, that, “la solitude est une
      belle chose; mais il faut quelqu’un pour vous dire que la
      solitude est une belle chose?” The epigram cannot be gainsayed;
      but the necessity is a thing that does not exist.