It was during one of my lonely journeyings, amid a far distant
      region of mountain locked within mountain, and sad rivers and
      melancholy tarn writhing or sleeping within all—that I chanced
      upon a certain rivulet and island. I came upon them suddenly in
      the leafy June, and threw myself upon the turf, beneath the
      branches of an unknown odorous shrub, that I might doze as I
      contemplated the scene. I felt that thus only should I look upon
      it—such was the character of phantasm which it wore.

On all sides—save to the west, where the sun was about
      sinking—arose the verdant walls of the forest. The little river
      which turned sharply in its course, and was thus immediately lost
      to sight, seemed to have no exit from its prison, but to be
      absorbed by the deep green foliage of the trees to the east—while
      in the opposite quarter (so it appeared to me as I lay at length
      and glanced upward) there poured down noiselessly and
      continuously into the valley, a rich golden and crimson waterfall
      from the sunset fountains of the sky.

About midway in the short vista which my dreamy vision took in,
      one small circular island, profusely verdured, reposed upon the
      bosom of the stream.

So blended bank and shadow there
      That each seemed pendulous in air—

so mirror-like was the glassy water, that it was scarcely
      possible to say at what point upon the slope of the emerald turf
      its crystal dominion began.

My position enabled me to include in a single view both the
      eastern and western extremities of the islet; and I observed a
      singularly-marked difference in their aspects. The latter was all
      one radiant harem of garden beauties. It glowed and blushed
      beneath the eyes of the slant sunlight, and fairly laughed with
      flowers. The grass was short, springy, sweet-scented, and
      asphodel-interspersed. The trees were lithe, mirthful,
      erect—bright, slender, and graceful,—of Eastern figure and
      foliage, with bark smooth, glossy, and parti-colored. There
      seemed a deep sense of life and joy about all; and although no
      airs blew from out the heavens, yet every thing had motion
      through the gentle sweepings to and fro of innumerable
      butterflies, that might have been mistaken for tulips with wings.
      (*4)