The other or eastern end of the isle was whelmed in the blackest
      shade. A sombre, yet beautiful and peaceful gloom here pervaded
      all things. The trees were dark in color, and mournful in form
      and attitude, wreathing themselves into sad, solemn, and spectral
      shapes that conveyed ideas of mortal sorrow and untimely death.
      The grass wore the deep tint of the cypress, and the heads of its
      blades hung droopingly, and hither and thither among it were many
      small unsightly hillocks, low and narrow, and not very long, that
      had the aspect of graves, but were not; although over and all
      about them the rue and the rosemary clambered. The shade of the
      trees fell heavily upon the water, and seemed to bury itself
      therein, impregnating the depths of the element with darkness. I
      fancied that each shadow, as the sun descended lower and lower,
      separated itself sullenly from the trunk that gave it birth, and
      thus became absorbed by the stream; while other shadows issued
      momently from the trees, taking the place of their predecessors
      thus entombed.

This idea, having once seized upon my fancy, greatly excited it,
      and I lost myself forthwith in revery. “If ever island were
      enchanted,” said I to myself, “this is it. This is the haunt of
      the few gentle Fays who remain from the wreck of the race. Are
      these green tombs theirs?—or do they yield up their sweet lives
      as mankind yield up their own? In dying, do they not rather waste
      away mournfully, rendering unto God, little by little, their
      existence, as these trees render up shadow after shadow,
      exhausting their substance unto dissolution? What the wasting
      death which engulfs it?”

As I thus mused, with half-shut eyes, while the sun sank rapidly
      to rest, and eddying currents careered round and round the
      island, bearing upon their bosom large, dazzling, white flakes of
      the bark of the sycamore—flakes which, in their multiform
      positions upon the water, a quick imagination might have
      converted into anything it pleased—while I thus mused, it
      appeared to me that the form of one of those very Fays about whom
      I had been pondering made its way slowly into the darkness from
      out the light at the western end of the island. She stood erect
      in a singularly fragile canoe, and urged it with the mere phantom
      of an oar. While within the influence of the lingering sunbeams,
      her attitude seemed indicative of joy—but sorrow deformed it as
      she passed within the shade. Slowly she glided along, and at
      length rounded the islet and re-entered the region of light. “The
      revolution which has just been made by the Fay,” continued I,
      musingly, “is the cycle of the brief year of her life. She has
      floated through her winter and through her summer. She is a year
      nearer unto Death; for I did not fail to see that, as she came
      into the shade, her shadow fell from her, and was swallowed up in
      the dark water, making its blackness more black.”