And again the boat appeared and the Fay; but about the attitude
      of the latter there was more of care and uncertainty and less of
      elastic joy. She floated again from out the light and into the
      gloom (which deepened momently) and again her shadow fell from
      her into the ebony water, and became absorbed into its blackness.
      And again and again she made the circuit of the island, (while
      the sun rushed down to his slumbers), and at each issuing into
      the light there was more sorrow about her person, while it grew
      feebler and far fainter and more indistinct, and at each passage
      into the gloom there fell from her a darker shade, which became
      whelmed in a shadow more black. But at length when the sun had
      utterly departed, the Fay, now the mere ghost of her former self,
      went disconsolately with her boat into the region of the ebony
      flood—and that she issued thence at all I cannot say, for
      darkness fell over all things and I beheld her magical figure no
      more.

THE ASSIGNATION

Stay for me there! I will not fail.
     To meet thee in that hollow vale.

(_Exequy on the death of his wife, by Henry King, Bishop of
Chichester_.)

Ill-fated and mysterious man!—bewildered in the brilliancy of
      thine own imagination, and fallen in the flames of thine own
      youth! Again in fancy I behold thee! Once more thy form hath
      risen before me!—not—oh! not as thou art—in the cold valley and
      shadow—but as thou _shouldst be_—squandering away a life of
      magnificent meditation in that city of dim visions, thine own
      Venice—which is a star-beloved Elysium of the sea, and the wide
      windows of whose Palladian palaces look down with a deep and
      bitter meaning upon the secrets of her silent waters. Yes! I
      repeat it—as thou _shouldst be_. There are surely other worlds
      than this—other thoughts than the thoughts of the multitude—other
      speculations than the speculations of the sophist. Who then shall
      call thy conduct into question? who blame thee for thy visionary
      hours, or denounce those occupations as a wasting away of life,
      which were but the overflowings of thine everlasting energies?

It was at Venice, beneath the covered archway there called the
      _Ponte di Sospiri_, that I met for the third or fourth time the
      person of whom I speak. It is with a confused recollection that I
      bring to mind the circumstances of that meeting. Yet I
      remember—ah! how should I forget?—the deep midnight, the Bridge
      of Sighs, the beauty of woman, and the Genius of Romance that
      stalked up and down the narrow canal.