It was a night of unusual gloom. The great clock of the Piazza
      had sounded the fifth hour of the Italian evening. The square of
      the Campanile lay silent and deserted, and the lights in the old
      Ducal Palace were dying fast away. I was returning home from the
      Piazetta, by way of the Grand Canal. But as my gondola arrived
      opposite the mouth of the canal San Marco, a female voice from
      its recesses broke suddenly upon the night, in one wild,
      hysterical, and long continued shriek. Startled at the sound, I
      sprang upon my feet: while the gondolier, letting slip his single
      oar, lost it in the pitchy darkness beyond a chance of recovery,
      and we were consequently left to the guidance of the current
      which here sets from the greater into the smaller channel. Like
      some huge and sable-feathered condor, we were slowly drifting
      down towards the Bridge of Sighs, when a thousand flambeaux
      flashing from the windows, and down the staircases of the Ducal
      Palace, turned all at once that deep gloom into a livid and
      preternatural day.

A child, slipping from the arms of its own mother, had fallen
      from an upper window of the lofty structure into the deep and dim
      canal. The quiet waters had closed placidly over their victim;
      and, although my own gondola was the only one in sight, many a
      stout swimmer, already in the stream, was seeking in vain upon
      the surface, the treasure which was to be found, alas! only
      within the abyss. Upon the broad black marble flagstones at the
      entrance of the palace, and a few steps above the water, stood a
      figure which none who then saw can have ever since forgotten. It
      was the Marchesa Aphrodite—the adoration of all Venice—the gayest
      of the gay—the most lovely where all were beautiful—but still the
      young wife of the old and intriguing Mentoni, and the mother of
      that fair child, her first and only one, who now, deep beneath
      the murky water, was thinking in bitterness of heart upon her
      sweet caresses, and exhausting its little life in struggles to
      call upon her name.