She stood alone. Her small, bare, and silvery feet gleamed in the
      black mirror of marble beneath her. Her hair, not as yet more
      than half loosened for the night from its ball-room array,
      clustered, amid a shower of diamonds, round and round her
      classical head, in curls like those of the young hyacinth. A
      snowy-white and gauze-like drapery seemed to be nearly the sole
      covering to her delicate form; but the mid-summer and midnight
      air was hot, sullen, and still, and no motion in the statue-like
      form itself, stirred even the folds of that raiment of very vapor
      which hung around it as the heavy marble hangs around the Niobe.
      Yet—strange to say!—her large lustrous eyes were not turned
      downwards upon that grave wherein her brightest hope lay
      buried—but riveted in a widely different direction! The prison of
      the Old Republic is, I think, the stateliest building in all
      Venice—but how could that lady gaze so fixedly upon it, when
      beneath her lay stifling her only child? Yon dark, gloomy niche,
      too, yawns right opposite her chamber window—what, then, _could_
      there be in its shadows—in its architecture—in its ivy-wreathed
      and solemn cornices—that the Marchesa di Mentoni had not wondered
      at a thousand times before? Nonsense!—Who does not remember that,
      at such a time as this, the eye, like a shattered mirror,
      multiplies the images of its sorrow, and sees in innumerable
      far-off places, the woe which is close at hand?

Many steps above the Marchesa, and within the arch of the
      water-gate, stood, in full dress, the Satyr-like figure of
      Mentoni himself. He was occasionally occupied in thrumming a
      guitar, and seemed _ennuye_ to the very death, as at intervals he
      gave directions for the recovery of his child. Stupefied and
      aghast, I had myself no power to move from the upright position I
      had assumed upon first hearing the shriek, and must have
      presented to the eyes of the agitated group a spectral and
      ominous appearance, as with pale countenance and rigid limbs, I
      floated down among them in that funereal gondola.

All efforts proved in vain. Many of the most energetic in the
      search were relaxing their exertions, and yielding to a gloomy
      sorrow. There seemed but little hope for the child; (how much
      less than for the mother!) but now, from the interior of that
      dark niche which has been already mentioned as forming a part of
      the Old Republican prison, and as fronting the lattice of the
      Marchesa, a figure muffled in a cloak, stepped out within reach
      of the light, and, pausing a moment upon the verge of the giddy
      descent, plunged headlong into the canal. As, in an instant
      afterwards, he stood with the still living and breathing child
      within his grasp, upon the marble flagstones by the side of the
      Marchesa, his cloak, heavy with the drenching water, became
      unfastened, and, falling in folds about his feet, discovered to
      the wonder-stricken spectators the graceful person of a very
      young man, with the sound of whose name the greater part of
      Europe was then ringing.