No word spoke the deliverer. But the Marchesa! She will now
      receive her child—she will press it to her heart—she will cling
      to its little form, and smother it with her caresses. Alas!
      _another’s_ arms have taken it from the stranger—_another’s_ arms
      have taken it away, and borne it afar off, unnoticed, into the
      palace! And the Marchesa! Her lip—her beautiful lip trembles;
      tears are gathering in her eyes—those eyes which, like Pliny’s
      acanthus, are “soft and almost liquid.” Yes! tears are gathering
      in those eyes—and see! the entire woman thrills throughout the
      soul, and the statue has started into life! The pallor of the
      marble countenance, the swelling of the marble bosom, the very
      purity of the marble feet, we behold suddenly flushed over with a
      tide of ungovernable crimson; and a slight shudder quivers about
      her delicate frame, as a gentle air at Napoli about the rich
      silver lilies in the grass.

Why _should_ that lady blush! To this demand there is no
      answer—except that, having left, in the eager haste and terror of
      a mother’s heart, the privacy of her own _boudoir_, she has
      neglected to enthral her tiny feet in their slippers, and utterly
      forgotten to throw over her Venetian shoulders that drapery which
      is their due. What other possible reason could there have been
      for her so blushing?—for the glance of those wild appealing
      eyes?—for the unusual tumult of that throbbing bosom?—for the
      convulsive pressure of that trembling hand?—that hand which fell,
      as Mentoni turned into the palace, accidentally, upon the hand of
      the stranger. What reason could there have been for the low—the
      singularly low tone of those unmeaning words which the lady
      uttered hurriedly in bidding him adieu? “Thou hast conquered,”
      she said, or the murmurs of the water deceived me; “thou hast
      conquered—one hour after sunrise—we shall meet—so let it be!”

The tumult had subsided, the lights had died away within the
      palace, and the stranger, whom I now recognized, stood alone upon
      the flags. He shook with inconceivable agitation, and his eye
      glanced around in search of a gondola. I could not do less than
      offer him the service of my own; and he accepted the civility.
      Having obtained an oar at the water-gate, we proceeded together
      to his residence, while he rapidly recovered his self-possession,
      and spoke of our former slight acquaintance in terms of great
      apparent cordiality.