There are some subjects upon which I take pleasure in being
      minute. The person of the stranger—let me call him by this title,
      who to all the world was still a stranger—the person of the
      stranger is one of these subjects. In height he might have been
      below rather than above the medium size: although there were
      moments of intense passion when his frame actually _expanded_ and
      belied the assertion. The light, almost slender symmetry of his
      figure, promised more of that ready activity which he evinced at
      the Bridge of Sighs, than of that Herculean strength which he has
      been known to wield without an effort, upon occasions of more
      dangerous emergency. With the mouth and chin of a deity—singular,
      wild, full, liquid eyes, whose shadows varied from pure hazel to
      intense and brilliant jet—and a profusion of curling, black hair,
      from which a forehead of unusual breadth gleamed forth at
      intervals all light and ivory—his were features than which I have
      seen none more classically regular, except, perhaps, the marble
      ones of the Emperor Commodus. Yet his countenance was,
      nevertheless, one of those which all men have seen at some period
      of their lives, and have never afterwards seen again. It had no
      peculiar, it had no settled predominant expression to be fastened
      upon the memory; a countenance seen and instantly forgotten, but
      forgotten with a vague and never-ceasing desire of recalling it
      to mind. Not that the spirit of each rapid passion failed, at any
      time, to throw its own distinct image upon the mirror of that
      face—but that the mirror, mirror-like, retained no vestige of the
      passion, when the passion had departed.

Upon leaving him on the night of our adventure, he solicited me,
      in what I thought an urgent manner, to call upon him _very_ early
      the next morning. Shortly after sunrise, I found myself
      accordingly at his Palazzo, one of those huge structures of
      gloomy, yet fantastic pomp, which tower above the waters of the
      Grand Canal in the vicinity of the Rialto. I was shown up a broad
      winding staircase of mosaics, into an apartment whose
      unparalleled splendor burst through the opening door with an
      actual glare, making me blind and dizzy with luxuriousness.

I knew my acquaintance to be wealthy. Report had spoken of his
      possessions in terms which I had even ventured to call terms of
      ridiculous exaggeration. But as I gazed about me, I could not
      bring myself to believe that the wealth of any subject in Europe
      could have supplied the princely magnificence which burned and
      blazed around.