“Here,” he resumed, arising and leaning on my arm as he sauntered
      around the apartment, “here are paintings from the Greeks to
      Cimabue, and from Cimabue to the present hour. Many are chosen,
      as you see, with little deference to the opinions of Virtu. They
      are all, however, fitting tapestry for a chamber such as this.
      Here, too, are some _chefs d’oeuvre_ of the unknown great; and
      here, unfinished designs by men, celebrated in their day, whose
      very names the perspicacity of the academies has left to silence
      and to me. What think you,” said he, turning abruptly as he
      spoke—“what think you of this Madonna della Pieta?”

“It is Guido’s own!” I said, with all the enthusiasm of my
      nature, for I had been poring intently over its surpassing
      loveliness. “It is Guido’s own!—how _could_ you have obtained
      it?—she is undoubtedly in painting what the Venus is in
      sculpture.”

“Ha!” said he thoughtfully, “the Venus—the beautiful Venus?—the
      Venus of the Medici?—she of the diminutive head and the gilded
      hair? Part of the left arm (here his voice dropped so as to be
      heard with difficulty,) and all the right, are restorations; and
      in the coquetry of that right arm lies, I think, the quintessence
      of all affectation. Give _me_ the Canova! The Apollo, too, is a
      copy—there can be no doubt of it—blind fool that I am, who cannot
      behold the boasted inspiration of the Apollo! I cannot help—pity
      me!—I cannot help preferring the Antinous. Was it not Socrates
      who said that the statuary found his statue in the block of
      marble? Then Michael Angelo was by no means original in his
      couplet—

‘Non ha l’ottimo artista alcun concetto
     Che un marmo solo in se non circunscriva.’”

It has been, or should be remarked, that, in the manner of the
      true gentleman, we are always aware of a difference from the
      bearing of the vulgar, without being at once precisely able to
      determine in what such difference consists. Allowing the remark
      to have applied in its full force to the outward demeanor of my
      acquaintance, I felt it, on that eventful morning, still more
      fully applicable to his moral temperament and character. Nor can
      I better define that peculiarity of spirit which seemed to place
      him so essentially apart from all other human beings, than by
      calling it a _habit_ of intense and continual thought, pervading
      even his most trivial actions—intruding upon his moments of
      dalliance—and interweaving itself with his very flashes of
      merriment—like adders which writhe from out the eyes of the
      grinning masks in the cornices around the temples of Persepolis.