I could not help, however, repeatedly observing, through the
      mingled tone of levity and solemnity with which he rapidly
      descanted upon matters of little importance, a certain air of
      trepidation—a degree of nervous _unction_ in action and in
      speech—an unquiet excitability of manner which appeared to me at
      all times unaccountable, and upon some occasions even filled me
      with alarm. Frequently, too, pausing in the middle of a sentence
      whose commencement he had apparently forgotten, he seemed to be
      listening in the deepest attention, as if either in momentary
      expectation of a visitor, or to sounds which must have had
      existence in his imagination alone.

It was during one of these reveries or pauses of apparent
      abstraction, that, in turning over a page of the poet and scholar
      Politian’s beautiful tragedy “The Orfeo,” (the first native
      Italian tragedy,) which lay near me upon an ottoman, I discovered
      a passage underlined in pencil. It was a passage towards the end
      of the third act—a passage of the most heart-stirring
      excitement—a passage which, although tainted with impurity, no
      man shall read without a thrill of novel emotion—no woman without
      a sigh. The whole page was blotted with fresh tears; and, upon
      the opposite interleaf, were the following English lines, written
      in a hand so very different from the peculiar characters of my
      acquaintance, that I had some difficulty in recognising it as his
      own:—

Thou wast that all to me, love,
    For which my soul did pine—
A green isle in the sea, love,
    A fountain and a shrine,
All wreathed with fairy fruits and flowers;
    And all the flowers were mine.

Ah, dream too bright to last!
    Ah, starry Hope, that didst arise
But to be overcast!
    A voice from out the Future cries,
“Onward!”—but o’er the Past
    (Dim gulf!) my spirit hovering lies,
Mute—motionless—aghast!

For alas!  alas!  with me
    The light of life is o’er.
“No more—no more—no more,”
    (Such language holds the solemn sea
To the sands upon the shore,)
    Shall bloom the thunder-blasted tree,
Or the stricken eagle soar!

Now all my hours are trances;
    And all my nightly dreams
Are where the dark eye glances,
    And where thy footstep gleams,

Alas!  for that accursed time
    They bore thee o’er the billow,
From Love to titled age and crime,
    And an unholy pillow!—
From me, and from our misty clime,
    Where weeps the silver willow!