That these lines were written in English—a language with which I
      had not believed their author acquainted—afforded me little
      matter for surprise. I was too well aware of the extent of his
      acquirements, and of the singular pleasure he took in concealing
      them from observation, to be astonished at any similar discovery;
      but the place of date, I must confess, occasioned me no little
      amazement. It had been originally written _London_, and
      afterwards carefully overscored—not, however, so effectually as
      to conceal the word from a scrutinizing eye. I say, this
      occasioned me no little amazement; for I well remember that, in a
      former conversation with a friend, I particularly inquired if he
      had at any time met in London the Marchesa di Mentoni, (who for
      some years previous to her marriage had resided in that city,)
      when his answer, if I mistake not, gave me to understand that he
      had never visited the metropolis of Great Britain. I might as
      well here mention, that I have more than once heard, (without, of
      course, giving credit to a report involving so many

“There is one painting,” said he, without being aware of my notice of
the tragedy—“there is still one painting which you have not seen.” And
throwing aside a drapery, he discovered a full-length portrait of the
Marchesa Aphrodite.

Human art could have done no more in the delineation of her superhuman
beauty. The same ethereal figure which stood before me the preceding
night upon the steps of the Ducal Palace, stood before me once again.
But in the expression of the countenance, which was beaming all over
with smiles, there still lurked (incomprehensible anomaly!) that fitful
stain of melancholy which will ever be found inseparable from the
perfection of the beautiful. Her right arm lay folded over her bosom.
With her left she pointed downward to a curiously fashioned vase. One
small, fairy foot, alone visible, barely touched the earth; and,
scarcely discernible in the brilliant atmosphere which seemed to
encircle and enshrine her loveliness, floated a pair of the most
delicately imagined wings. My glance fell from the painting to the
figure of my friend, and the vigorous words of Chapman’s _Bussy
D’Ambois_, quivered instinctively upon my lips:

“He is up
There like a Roman statue!  He will stand
Till Death hath made him marble!”