“Come,” he said at length, turning towards a table of richly
      enamelled and massive silver, upon which were a few goblets
      fantastically stained, together with two large Etruscan vases,
      fashioned in the same extraordinary model as that in the
      foreground of the portrait, and filled with what I supposed to be
      Johannisberger. “Come,” he said, abruptly, “let us drink! It is
      early—but let us drink. It is _indeed_ early,” he continued,
      musingly, as a cherub with a heavy golden hammer made the
      apartment ring with the first hour after sunrise: “It is _indeed_
      early—but what matters it? let us drink! Let us pour out an
      offering to yon solemn sun which these gaudy lamps and censers
      are so eager to subdue!” And, having made me pledge him in a
      bumper, he swallowed in rapid succession several goblets of the
      wine.

“To dream,” he continued, resuming the tone of his desultory
      conversation, as he held up to the rich light of a censer one of
      the magnificent vases—“to dream has been the business of my life.
      I have therefore framed for myself, as you see, a bower of
      dreams. In the heart of Venice could I have erected a better? You
      behold around you, it is true, a medley of architectural
      embellishments. The chastity of Ionia is offended by antediluvian
      devices, and the sphynxes of Egypt are outstretched upon carpets
      of gold. Yet the effect is incongruous to the timid alone.
      Proprieties of place, and especially of time, are the bugbears
      which terrify mankind from the contemplation of the magnificent.
      Once I was myself a decorist; but that sublimation of folly has
      palled upon my soul. All this is now the fitter for my purpose.
      Like these arabesque censers, my spirit is writhing in fire, and
      the delirium of this scene is fashioning me for the wilder
      visions of that land of real dreams whither I am now rapidly
      departing.” He here paused abruptly, bent his head to his bosom,
      and seemed to listen to a sound which I could not hear. At
      length, erecting his frame, he looked upwards, and ejaculated the
      lines of the Bishop of Chichester:

_“Stay for me there!  I will not fail_
     _To meet thee in that hollow vale.”_

In the next instant, confessing the power of the wine, he threw
      himself at full-length upon an ottoman.

A quick step was now heard upon the staircase, and a loud knock
      at the door rapidly succeeded. I was hastening to anticipate a
      second disturbance, when a page of Mentoni’s household burst into
      the room, and faltered out, in a voice choking with emotion, the
      incoherent words, “My mistress!—my mistress!—Poisoned!—poisoned!
      Oh, beautiful—oh, beautiful Aphrodite!”

Bewildered, I flew to the ottoman, and endeavored to arouse the
      sleeper to a sense of the startling intelligence. But his limbs
      were rigid—his lips were livid—his lately beaming eyes were
      riveted in _death_. I staggered back towards the table—my hand
      fell upon a cracked and blackened goblet—and a consciousness of
      the entire and terrible truth flashed suddenly over my soul.

THE PIT AND THE PENDULUM