I had swooned; but still will not say that all of consciousness
      was lost. What of it there remained I will not attempt to define,
      or even to describe; yet all was not lost. In the deepest
      slumber—no! In delirium—no! In a swoon—no! In death—no! even in
      the grave all is not lost. Else there is no immortality for man.
      Arousing from the most profound of slumbers, we break the
      gossamer web of some dream. Yet in a second afterward, (so frail
      may that web have been) we remember not that we have dreamed. In
      the return to life from the swoon there are two stages; first,
      that of the sense of mental or spiritual; secondly, that of the
      sense of physical, existence. It seems probable that if, upon
      reaching the second stage, we could recall the impressions of the
      first, we should find these impressions eloquent in memories of
      the gulf beyond. And that gulf is—what? How at least shall we
      distinguish its shadows from those of the tomb? But if the
      impressions of what I have termed the first stage are not, at
      will, recalled, yet, after long interval, do they not come
      unbidden, while we marvel whence they come? He who has never
      swooned, is not he who finds strange palaces and wildly familiar
      faces in coals that glow; is not he who beholds floating in
      mid-air the sad visions that the many may not view; is not he who
      ponders over the perfume of some novel flower; is not he whose
      brain grows bewildered with the meaning of some musical cadence
      which has never before arrested his attention.

Amid frequent and thoughtful endeavors to remember; amid earnest
      struggles to regather some token of the state of seeming
      nothingness into which my soul had lapsed, there have been
      moments when I have dreamed of success; there have been brief,
      very brief periods when I have conjured up remembrances which the
      lucid reason of a later epoch assures me could have had reference
      only to that condition of seeming unconsciousness. These shadows
      of memory tell, indistinctly, of tall figures that lifted and
      bore me in silence down—down—still down—till a hideous dizziness
      oppressed me at the mere idea of the interminableness of the
      descent. They tell also of a vague horror at my heart, on account
      of that heart’s unnatural stillness. Then comes a sense of sudden
      motionlessness throughout all things; as if those who bore me (a
      ghastly train!) had outrun, in their descent, the limits of the
      limitless, and paused from the wearisomeness of their toil. After
      this I call to mind flatness and dampness; and then all is
      madness—the madness of a memory which busies itself among
      forbidden things.