Very suddenly there came back to my soul motion and sound—the
      tumultuous motion of the heart, and, in my ears, the sound of its
      beating. Then a pause in which all is blank. Then again sound,
      and motion, and touch—a tingling sensation pervading my frame.
      Then the mere consciousness of existence, without thought—a
      condition which lasted long. Then, very suddenly, thought, and
      shuddering terror, and earnest endeavor to comprehend my true
      state. Then a strong desire to lapse into insensibility. Then a
      rushing revival of soul and a successful effort to move. And now
      a full memory of the trial, of the judges, of the sable
      draperies, of the sentence, of the sickness, of the swoon. Then
      entire forgetfulness of all that followed; of all that a later
      day and much earnestness of endeavor have enabled me vaguely to
      recall.

So far, I had not opened my eyes. I felt that I lay upon my back,
      unbound. I reached out my hand, and it fell heavily upon
      something damp and hard. There I suffered it to remain for many
      minutes, while I strove to imagine where and what I could be. I
      longed, yet dared not to employ my vision. I dreaded the first
      glance at objects around me. It was not that I feared to look
      upon things horrible, but that I grew aghast lest there should be
      nothing to see. At length, with a wild desperation at heart, I
      quickly unclosed my eyes. My worst thoughts, then, were
      confirmed. The blackness of eternal night encompassed me. I
      struggled for breath. The intensity of the darkness seemed to
      oppress and stifle me. The atmosphere was intolerably close. I
      still lay quietly, and made effort to exercise my reason. I
      brought to mind the inquisitorial proceedings, and attempted from
      that point to deduce my real condition. The sentence had passed;
      and it appeared to me that a very long interval of time had since
      elapsed. Yet not for a moment did I suppose myself actually dead.
      Such a supposition, notwithstanding what we read in fiction, is
      altogether inconsistent with real existence;—but where and in
      what state was I? The condemned to death, I knew, perished
      usually at the autos-da-fe, and one of these had been held on the
      very night of the day of my trial. Had I been remanded to my
      dungeon, to await the next sacrifice, which would not take place
      for many months? This I at once saw could not be. Victims had
      been in immediate demand. Moreover, my dungeon, as well as all
      the condemned cells at Toledo, had stone floors, and light was
      not altogether excluded.