A fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my
      heart, and for a brief period, I once more relapsed into
      insensibility. Upon recovering, I at once started to my feet,
      trembling convulsively in every fibre. I thrust my arms wildly
      above and around me in all directions. I felt nothing; yet
      dreaded to move a step, lest I should be impeded by the walls of
      a tomb. Perspiration burst from every pore, and stood in cold big
      beads upon my forehead. The agony of suspense grew at length
      intolerable, and I cautiously moved forward, with my arms
      extended, and my eyes straining from their sockets, in the hope
      of catching some faint ray of light. I proceeded for many paces;
      but still all was blackness and vacancy. I breathed more freely.
      It seemed evident that mine was not, at least, the most hideous
      of fates.

And now, as I still continued to step cautiously onward, there
      came thronging upon my recollection a thousand vague rumors of
      the horrors of Toledo. Of the dungeons there had been strange
      things narrated—fables I had always deemed them—but yet strange,
      and too ghastly to repeat, save in a whisper. Was I left to
      perish of starvation in this subterranean world of darkness; or
      what fate, perhaps even more fearful, awaited me? That the result
      would be death, and a death of more than customary bitterness, I
      knew too well the character of my judges to doubt. The mode and
      the hour were all that occupied or distracted me.

My outstretched hands at length encountered some solid
      obstruction. It was a wall, seemingly of stone masonry—very
      smooth, slimy, and cold. I followed it up; stepping with all the
      careful distrust with which certain antique narratives had
      inspired me. This process, however, afforded me no means of
      ascertaining the dimensions of my dungeon; as I might make its
      circuit, and return to the point whence I set out, without being
      aware of the fact; so perfectly uniform seemed the wall. I
      therefore sought the knife which had been in my pocket, when led
      into the inquisitorial chamber; but it was gone; my clothes had
      been exchanged for a wrapper of coarse serge. I had thought of
      forcing the blade in some minute crevice of the masonry, so as to
      identify my point of departure. The difficulty, nevertheless, was
      but trivial; although, in the disorder of my fancy, it seemed at
      first insuperable. I tore a part of the hem from the robe and
      placed the fragment at full length, and at right angles to the
      wall. In groping my way around the prison, I could not fail to
      encounter this rag upon completing the circuit. So, at least I
      thought: but I had not counted upon the extent of the dungeon, or
      upon my own weakness. The ground was moist and slippery. I
      staggered onward for some time, when I stumbled and fell. My
      excessive fatigue induced me to remain prostrate; and sleep soon
      overtook me as I lay.