Upon awaking, and stretching forth an arm, I found beside me a
      loaf and a pitcher with water. I was too much exhausted to
      reflect upon this circumstance, but ate and drank with avidity.
      Shortly afterward, I resumed my tour around the prison, and with
      much toil came at last upon the fragment of the serge. Up to the
      period when I fell I had counted fifty-two paces, and upon
      resuming my walk, I had counted forty-eight more—when I arrived
      at the rag. There were in all, then, a hundred paces; and,
      admitting two paces to the yard, I presumed the dungeon to be
      fifty yards in circuit. I had met, however, with many angles in
      the wall, and thus I could form no guess at the shape of the
      vault, for vault I could not help supposing it to be.

I had little object—certainly no hope—in these researches; but a
      vague curiosity prompted me to continue them. Quitting the wall,
      I resolved to cross the area of the enclosure. At first I
      proceeded with extreme caution, for the floor, although seemingly
      of solid material, was treacherous with slime. At length,
      however, I took courage, and did not hesitate to step firmly;
      endeavoring to cross in as direct a line as possible. I had
      advanced some ten or twelve paces in this manner, when the
      remnant of the torn hem of my robe became entangled between my
      legs. I stepped on it, and fell violently on my face.

In the confusion attending my fall, I did not immediately
      apprehend a somewhat startling circumstance, which yet, in a few
      seconds afterward, and while I still lay prostrate, arrested my
      attention. It was this: my chin rested upon the floor of the
      prison, but my lips and the upper portion of my head, although
      seemingly at a less elevation than the chin, touched nothing. At
      the same time my forehead seemed bathed in a clammy vapor, and
      the peculiar smell of decayed fungus arose to my nostrils. I put
      forward my arm, and shuddered to find that I had fallen at the
      very brink of a circular pit, whose extent, of course, I had no
      means of ascertaining at the moment. Groping about the masonry
      just below the margin, I succeeded in dislodging a small
      fragment, and let it fall into the abyss. For many seconds I
      hearkened to its reverberations as it dashed against the sides of
      the chasm in its descent; at length there was a sullen plunge
      into water, succeeded by loud echoes. At the same moment there
      came a sound resembling the quick opening, and as rapid closing
      of a door overhead, while a faint gleam of light flashed suddenly
      through the gloom, and as suddenly faded away.