I saw clearly the doom which had been prepared for me, and
      congratulated myself upon the timely accident by which I had
      escaped. Another step before my fall, and the world had seen me
      no more. And the death just avoided, was of that very character
      which I had regarded as fabulous and frivolous in the tales
      respecting the Inquisition. To the victims of its tyranny, there
      was the choice of death with its direst physical agonies, or
      death with its most hideous moral horrors. I had been reserved
      for the latter. By long suffering my nerves had been unstrung,
      until I trembled at the sound of my own voice, and had become in
      every respect a fitting subject for the species of torture which
      awaited me.

Shaking in every limb, I groped my way back to the wall—resolving
      there to perish rather than risk the terrors of the wells, of
      which my imagination now pictured many in various positions about
      the dungeon. In other conditions of mind I might have had courage
      to end my misery at once by a plunge into one of these abysses;
      but now I was the veriest of cowards. Neither could I forget what
      I had read of these pits—that the sudden extinction of life
      formed no part of their most horrible plan.

Agitation of spirit kept me awake for many long hours, but at
      length I again slumbered. Upon arousing, I found by my side, as
      before, a loaf and a pitcher of water. A burning thirst consumed
      me, and I emptied the vessel at a draught. It must have been
      drugged—for scarcely had I drunk, before I became irresistibly
      drowsy. A deep sleep fell upon me—a sleep like that of death. How
      long it lasted of course, I know not; but when, once again, I
      unclosed my eyes, the objects around me were visible. By a wild
      sulphurous lustre, the origin of which I could not at first
      determine, I was enabled to see the extent and aspect of the
      prison.