In its size I had been greatly mistaken. The whole circuit of its
      walls did not exceed twenty-five yards. For some minutes this
      fact occasioned me a world of vain trouble; vain indeed! for what
      could be of less importance, under the terrible circumstances
      which environed me, then the mere dimensions of my dungeon? But
      my soul took a wild interest in trifles, and I busied myself in
      endeavors to account for the error I had committed in my
      measurement. The truth at length flashed upon me. In my first
      attempt at exploration I had counted fifty-two paces, up to the
      period when I fell; I must then have been within a pace or two of
      the fragment of serge; in fact, I had nearly performed the
      circuit of the vault. I then slept—and, upon awaking, I must have
      returned upon my steps—thus supposing the circuit nearly double
      what it actually was. My confusion of mind prevented me from
      observing that I began my tour with the wall to the left, and
      ended it with the wall to the right.

I had been deceived, too, in respect to the shape of the
      enclosure. In feeling my way I had found many angles, and thus
      deduced an idea of great irregularity; so potent is the effect of
      total darkness upon one arousing from lethargy or sleep! The
      angles were simply those of a few slight depressions, or niches,
      at odd intervals. The general shape of the prison was square.
      What I had taken for masonry seemed now to be iron, or some other
      metal, in huge plates, whose sutures or joints occasioned the
      depression. The entire surface of this metallic enclosure was
      rudely daubed in all the hideous and repulsive devices to which
      the charnel superstition of the monks has given rise. The figures
      of fiends in aspects of menace, with skeleton forms, and other
      more really fearful images, overspread and disfigured the walls.
      I observed that the outlines of these monstrosities were
      sufficiently distinct, but that the colors seemed faded and
      blurred, as if from the effects of a damp atmosphere. I now
      noticed the floor, too, which was of stone. In the centre yawned
      the circular pit from whose jaws I had escaped; but it was the
      only one in the dungeon.