All this I saw indistinctly and by much effort—for my personal
      condition had been greatly changed during slumber. I now lay upon
      my back, and at full length, on a species of low framework of
      wood. To this I was securely bound by a long strap resembling a
      surcingle. It passed in many convolutions about my limbs and
      body, leaving at liberty only my head, and my left arm to such
      extent that I could, by dint of much exertion, supply myself with
      food from an earthen dish which lay by my side on the floor. I
      saw, to my horror, that the pitcher had been removed. I say to my
      horror—for I was consumed with intolerable thirst. This thirst it
      appeared to be the design of my persecutors to stimulate—for the
      food in the dish was meat pungently seasoned.

Looking upward, I surveyed the ceiling of my prison. It was some
      thirty or forty feet overhead, and constructed much as the side
      walls. In one of its panels a very singular figure riveted my
      whole attention. It was the painted figure of Time as he is
      commonly represented, save that, in lieu of a scythe, he held
      what, at a casual glance, I supposed to be the pictured image of
      a huge pendulum such as we see on antique clocks. There was
      something, however, in the appearance of this machine which
      caused me to regard it more attentively. While I gazed directly
      upward at it (for its position was immediately over my own) I
      fancied that I saw it in motion. In an instant afterward the
      fancy was confirmed. Its sweep was brief, and of course slow. I
      watched it for some minutes, somewhat in fear, but more in
      wonder. Wearied at length with observing its dull movement, I
      turned my eyes upon the other objects in the cell.

A slight noise attracted my notice, and, looking to the floor, I
      saw several enormous rats traversing it. They had issued from the
      well, which lay just within view to my right. Even then, while I
      gazed, they came up in troops, hurriedly, with ravenous eyes,
      allured by the scent of the meat. From this it required much
      effort and attention to scare them away.