It might have been half an hour, perhaps even an hour, (for I
      could take but imperfect note of time) before I again cast my
      eyes upward. What I then saw confounded and amazed me. The sweep
      of the pendulum had increased in extent by nearly a yard. As a
      natural consequence, its velocity was also much greater. But what
      mainly disturbed me was the idea that had perceptibly descended.
      I now observed—with what horror it is needless to say—that its
      nether extremity was formed of a crescent of glittering steel,
      about a foot in length from horn to horn; the horns upward, and
      the under edge evidently as keen as that of a razor. Like a razor
      also, it seemed massy and heavy, tapering from the edge into a
      solid and broad structure above. It was appended to a weighty rod
      of brass, and the whole hissed as it swung through the air.

I could no longer doubt the doom prepared for me by monkish
      ingenuity in torture. My cognizance of the pit had become known
      to the inquisitorial agents—_the pit_, whose horrors had been
      destined for so bold a recusant as myself—the pit, typical of
      hell, and regarded by rumor as the Ultima Thule of all their
      punishments. The plunge into this pit I had avoided by the merest
      of accidents, I knew that surprise, or entrapment into torment,
      formed an important portion of all the grotesquerie of these
      dungeon deaths. Having failed to fall, it was no part of the
      demon plan to hurl me into the abyss; and thus (there being no
      alternative) a different and a milder destruction awaited me.
      Milder! I half smiled in my agony as I thought of such
      application of such a term.

What boots it to tell of the long, long hours of horror more than
      mortal, during which I counted the rushing vibrations of the
      steel! Inch by inch—line by line—with a descent only appreciable
      at intervals that seemed ages—down and still down it came! Days
      passed—it might have been that many days passed—ere it swept so
      closely over me as to fan me with its acrid breath. The odor of
      the sharp steel forced itself into my nostrils. I prayed—I
      wearied heaven with my prayer for its more speedy descent. I grew
      frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward against the
      sweep of the fearful scimitar. And then I fell suddenly calm, and
      lay smiling at the glittering death, as a child at some rare
      bauble.