There was another interval of utter insensibility; it was brief;
      for, upon again lapsing into life there had been no perceptible
      descent in the pendulum. But it might have been long; for I knew
      there were demons who took note of my swoon, and who could have
      arrested the vibration at pleasure. Upon my recovery, too, I felt
      very—oh! inexpressibly—sick and weak, as if through long
      inanition. Even amid the agonies of that period, the human nature
      craved food. With painful effort I outstretched my left arm as
      far as my bonds permitted, and took possession of the small
      remnant which had been spared me by the rats. As I put a portion
      of it within my lips, there rushed to my mind a half formed
      thought of joy—of hope. Yet what business had _I_ with hope? It
      was, as I say, a half formed thought—man has many such, which are
      never completed. I felt that it was of joy—of hope; but felt also
      that it had perished in its formation. In vain I struggled to
      perfect—to regain it. Long suffering had nearly annihilated all
      my ordinary powers of mind. I was an imbecile—an idiot.

The vibration of the pendulum was at right angles to my length. I
      saw that the crescent was designed to cross the region of the
      heart. It would fray the serge of my robe—it would return and
      repeat its operations—again—and again. Notwithstanding its
      terrifically wide sweep (some thirty feet or more) and the
      hissing vigor of its descent, sufficient to sunder these very
      walls of iron, still the fraying of my robe would be all that,
      for several minutes, it would accomplish. And at this thought I
      paused. I dared not go farther than this reflection. I dwelt upon
      it with a pertinacity of attention—as if, in so dwelling, I could
      arrest here the descent of the steel. I forced myself to ponder
      upon the sound of the crescent as it should pass across the
      garment—upon the peculiar thrilling sensation which the friction
      of cloth produces on the nerves. I pondered upon all this
      frivolity until my teeth were on edge.

Down—steadily down it crept. I took a frenzied pleasure in
      contrasting its downward with its lateral velocity. To the
      right—to the left—far and wide—with the shriek of a damned
      spirit! to my heart with the stealthy pace of the tiger! I
      alternately laughed and howled as the one or the other idea grew
      predominant.

Down—certainly, relentlessly down! It vibrated within three
      inches of my bosom! I struggled violently, furiously, to free my
      left arm. This was free only from the elbow to the hand. I could
      reach the latter, from the platter beside me, to my mouth, with
      great effort, but no farther. Could I have broken the fastenings
      above the elbow, I would have seized and attempted to arrest the
      pendulum. I might as well have attempted to arrest an avalanche!