Down—still unceasingly—still inevitably down! I gasped and
      struggled at each vibration. I shrunk convulsively at its every
      sweep. My eyes followed its outward or upward whirls with the
      eagerness of the most unmeaning despair; they closed themselves
      spasmodically at the descent, although death would have been a
      relief, oh, how unspeakable! Still I quivered in every nerve to
      think how slight a sinking of the machinery would precipitate
      that keen, glistening axe upon my bosom. It was hope that
      prompted the nerve to quiver—the frame to shrink. It was hope—the
      hope that triumphs on the rack—that whispers to the
      death-condemned even in the dungeons of the Inquisition.

I saw that some ten or twelve vibrations would bring the steel in
      actual contact with my robe, and with this observation there
      suddenly came over my spirit all the keen, collected calmness of
      despair. For the first time during many hours—or perhaps days—I
      thought. It now occurred to me that the bandage, or surcingle,
      which enveloped me, was unique. I was tied by no separate cord.
      The first stroke of the razorlike crescent athwart any portion of
      the band, would so detach it that it might be unwound from my
      person by means of my left hand. But how fearful, in that case,
      the proximity of the steel! The result of the slightest struggle
      how deadly! Was it likely, moreover, that the minions of the
      torturer had not foreseen and provided for this possibility? Was
      it probable that the bandage crossed my bosom in the track of the
      pendulum? Dreading to find my faint, and, as it seemed, my last
      hope frustrated, I so far elevated my head as to obtain a
      distinct view of my breast. The surcingle enveloped my limbs and
      body close in all directions—save in the path of the destroying
      crescent.

Scarcely had I dropped my head back into its original position,
      when there flashed upon my mind what I cannot better describe
      than as the unformed half of that idea of deliverance to which I
      have previously alluded, and of which a moiety only floated
      indeterminately through my brain when I raised food to my burning
      lips. The whole thought was now present—feeble, scarcely sane,
      scarcely definite,—but still entire. I proceeded at once, with
      the nervous energy of despair, to attempt its execution.

For many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon
      which I lay had been literally swarming with rats. They were
      wild, bold, ravenous—their red eyes glaring upon me as if they
      waited but for motionlessness on my part to make me their prey.
      “To what food,” I thought, “have they been accustomed in the
      well?”