They had devoured, in spite of all my efforts to prevent them,
      all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish. I had fallen
      into an habitual see-saw, or wave of the hand about the platter;
      and, at length, the unconscious uniformity of the movement
      deprived it of effect. In their voracity the vermin frequently
      fastened their sharp fangs in my fingers. With the particles of
      the oily and spicy viand which now remained, I thoroughly rubbed
      the bandage wherever I could reach it; then, raising my hand from
      the floor, I lay breathlessly still.

At first the ravenous animals were startled and terrified at the
      change—at the cessation of movement. They shrank alarmedly back;
      many sought the well. But this was only for a moment. I had not
      counted in vain upon their voracity. Observing that I remained
      without motion, one or two of the boldest leaped upon the
      frame-work, and smelt at the surcingle. This seemed the signal
      for a general rush. Forth from the well they hurried in fresh
      troops. They clung to the wood—they overran it, and leaped in
      hundreds upon my person. The measured movement of the pendulum
      disturbed them not at all. Avoiding its strokes they busied
      themselves with the anointed bandage. They pressed—they swarmed
      upon me in ever accumulating heaps. They writhed upon my throat;
      their cold lips sought my own; I was half stifled by their
      thronging pressure; disgust, for which the world has no name,
      swelled my bosom, and chilled, with a heavy clamminess, my heart.
      Yet one minute, and I felt that the struggle would be over.
      Plainly I perceived the loosening of the bandage. I knew that in
      more than one place it must be already severed. With a more than
      human resolution I lay still.

Nor had I erred in my calculations—nor had I endured in vain. I
      at length felt that I was free. The surcingle hung in ribands
      from my body. But the stroke of the pendulum already pressed upon
      my bosom. It had divided the serge of the robe. It had cut
      through the linen beneath. Twice again it swung, and a sharp
      sense of pain shot through every nerve. But the moment of escape
      had arrived. At a wave of my hand my deliverers hurried
      tumultuously away. With a steady movement—cautious, sidelong,
      shrinking, and slow—I slid from the embrace of the bandage and
      beyond the reach of the scimitar. For the moment, at least, I was
      free.