Free!—and in the grasp of the Inquisition! I had scarcely stepped
      from my wooden bed of horror upon the stone floor of the prison,
      when the motion of the hellish machine ceased and I beheld it
      drawn up, by some invisible force, through the ceiling. This was
      a lesson which I took desperately to heart. My every motion was
      undoubtedly watched. Free!—I had but escaped death in one form of
      agony, to be delivered unto worse than death in some other. With
      that thought I rolled my eves nervously around on the barriers of
      iron that hemmed me in. Something unusual—some change which, at
      first, I could not appreciate distinctly—it was obvious, had
      taken place in the apartment. For many minutes of a dreamy and
      trembling abstraction, I busied myself in vain, unconnected
      conjecture. During this period, I became aware, for the first
      time, of the origin of the sulphurous light which illumined the
      cell. It proceeded from a fissure, about half an inch in width,
      extending entirely around the prison at the base of the walls,
      which thus appeared, and were, completely separated from the
      floor. I endeavored, but of course in vain, to look through the
      aperture.

As I arose from the attempt, the mystery of the alteration in the
      chamber broke at once upon my understanding. I have observed
      that, although the outlines of the figures upon the walls were
      sufficiently distinct, yet the colors seemed blurred and
      indefinite. These colors had now assumed, and were momentarily
      assuming, a startling and most intense brilliancy, that gave to
      the spectral and fiendish portraitures an aspect that might have
      thrilled even firmer nerves than my own. Demon eyes, of a wild
      and ghastly vivacity, glared upon me in a thousand directions,
      where none had been visible before, and gleamed with the lurid
      lustre of a fire that I could not force my imagination to regard
      as unreal.

_Unreal!_—Even while I breathed there came to my nostrils the
      breath of the vapour of heated iron! A suffocating odour pervaded
      the prison! A deeper glow settled each moment in the eyes that
      glared at my agonies! A richer tint of crimson diffused itself
      over the pictured horrors of blood. I panted! I gasped for
      breath! There could be no doubt of the design of my
      tormentors—oh! most unrelenting! oh! most demoniac of men! I
      shrank from the glowing metal to the centre of the cell. Amid the
      thought of the fiery destruction that impended, the idea of the
      coolness of the well came over my soul like balm. I rushed to its
      deadly brink. I threw my straining vision below. The glare from
      the enkindled roof illumined its inmost recesses. Yet, for a wild
      moment, did my spirit refuse to comprehend the meaning of what I
      saw. At length it forced—it wrestled its way into my soul—it
      burned itself in upon my shuddering reason. Oh! for a voice to
      speak!—oh! horror!—oh! any horror but this! With a shriek, I
      rushed from the margin, and buried my face in my hands—weeping
      bitterly.