The heat rapidly increased, and once again I looked up,
      shuddering as with a fit of the ague. There had been a second
      change in the cell—and now the change was obviously in the form.
      As before, it was in vain that I, at first, endeavoured to
      appreciate or understand what was taking place. But not long was
      I left in doubt. The Inquisitorial vengeance had been hurried by
      my two-fold escape, and there was to be no more dallying with the
      King of Terrors. The room had been square. I saw that two of its
      iron angles were now acute—two, consequently, obtuse. The fearful
      difference quickly increased with a low rumbling or moaning
      sound. In an instant the apartment had shifted its form into that
      of a lozenge. But the alteration stopped not here—I neither hoped
      nor desired it to stop. I could have clasped the red walls to my
      bosom as a garment of eternal peace. “Death,” I said, “any death
      but that of the pit!” Fool! might I have not known that into the
      pit it was the object of the burning iron to urge me? Could I
      resist its glow? or, if even that, could I withstand its
      pressure? And now, flatter and flatter grew the lozenge, with a
      rapidity that left me no time for contemplation. Its centre, and
      of course, its greatest width, came just over the yawning gulf. I
      shrank back—but the closing walls pressed me resistlessly onward.
      At length for my seared and writhing body there was no longer an
      inch of foothold on the firm floor of the prison. I struggled no
      more, but the agony of my soul found vent in one loud, long, and
      final scream of despair. I felt that I tottered upon the brink—I
      averted my eyes—

There was a discordant hum of human voices! There was a loud
      blast as of many trumpets! There was a harsh grating as of a
      thousand thunders! The fiery walls rushed back! An outstretched
      arm caught my own as I fell, fainting, into the abyss. It was
      that of General Lasalle. The French army had entered Toledo. The
      Inquisition was in the hands of its enemies.

THE PREMATURE BURIAL

There are certain themes of which the interest is all-absorbing,
      but which are too entirely horrible for the purposes of
      legitimate fiction. These the mere romanticist must eschew, if he
      do not wish to offend or to disgust. They are with propriety
      handled only when the severity and majesty of Truth sanctify and
      sustain them. We thrill, for example, with the most intense of
      “pleasurable pain” over the accounts of the Passage of the
      Beresina, of the Earthquake at Lisbon, of the Plague at London,
      of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, or of the stifling of the
      hundred and twenty-three prisoners in the Black Hole at Calcutta.
      But in these accounts it is the fact——it is the reality——it is
      the history which excites. As inventions, we should regard them
      with simple abhorrence.