I have mentioned some few of the more prominent and august
      calamities on record; but in these it is the extent, not less
      than the character of the calamity, which so vividly impresses
      the fancy. I need not remind the reader that, from the long and
      weird catalogue of human miseries, I might have selected many
      individual instances more replete with essential suffering than
      any of these vast generalities of disaster. The true
      wretchedness, indeed—the ultimate woe——is particular, not
      diffuse. That the ghastly extremes of agony are endured by man
      the unit, and never by man the mass——for this let us thank a
      merciful God!

To be buried while alive is, beyond question, the most terrific
      of these extremes which has ever fallen to the lot of mere
      mortality. That it has frequently, very frequently, so fallen
      will scarcely be denied by those who think. The boundaries which
      divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall
      say where the one ends, and where the other begins? We know that
      there are diseases in which occur total cessations of all the
      apparent functions of vitality, and yet in which these cessations
      are merely suspensions, properly so called. They are only
      temporary pauses in the incomprehensible mechanism. A certain
      period elapses, and some unseen mysterious principle again sets
      in motion the magic pinions and the wizard wheels. The silver
      cord was not for ever loosed, nor the golden bowl irreparably
      broken. But where, meantime, was the soul?

Apart, however, from the inevitable conclusion, _a priori_ that
      such causes must produce such effects——that the well-known
      occurrence of such cases of suspended animation must naturally
      give rise, now and then, to premature interments—apart from this
      consideration, we have the direct testimony of medical and
      ordinary experience to prove that a vast number of such
      interments have actually taken place. I might refer at once, if
      necessary, to a hundred well-authenticated instances. One of very
      remarkable character, and of which the circumstances may be fresh
      in the memory of some of my readers, occurred, not very long ago,
      in the neighboring city of Baltimore, where it occasioned a
      painful, intense, and widely-extended excitement. The wife of one
      of the most respectable citizens—a lawyer of eminence and a
      member of Congress—was seized with a sudden and unaccountable
      illness, which completely baffled the skill of her physicians.
      After much suffering she died, or was supposed to die. No one
      suspected, indeed, or had reason to suspect, that she was not
      actually dead. She presented all the ordinary appearances of
      death. The face assumed the usual pinched and sunken outline. The
      lips were of the usual marble pallor. The eyes were lustreless.
      There was no warmth. Pulsation had ceased. For three days the
      body was preserved unburied, during which it had acquired a stony
      rigidity. The funeral, in short, was hastened, on account of the
      rapid advance of what was supposed to be decomposition.