An officer of artillery, a man of gigantic stature and of robust
      health, being thrown from an unmanageable horse, received a very
      severe contusion upon the head, which rendered him insensible at
      once; the skull was slightly fractured, but no immediate danger
      was apprehended. Trepanning was accomplished successfully. He was
      bled, and many other of the ordinary means of relief were
      adopted. Gradually, however, he fell into a more and more
      hopeless state of stupor, and, finally, it was thought that he
      died.

The weather was warm, and he was buried with indecent haste in
      one of the public cemeteries. His funeral took place on Thursday.
      On the Sunday following, the grounds of the cemetery were, as
      usual, much thronged with visitors, and about noon an intense
      excitement was created by the declaration of a peasant that,
      while sitting upon the grave of the officer, he had distinctly
      felt a commotion of the earth, as if occasioned by some one
      struggling beneath. At first little attention was paid to the
      man’s asseveration; but his evident terror, and the dogged
      obstinacy with which he persisted in his story, had at length
      their natural effect upon the crowd. Spades were hurriedly
      procured, and the grave, which was shamefully shallow, was in a
      few minutes so far thrown open that the head of its occupant
      appeared. He was then seemingly dead; but he sat nearly erect
      within his coffin, the lid of which, in his furious struggles, he
      had partially uplifted.

He was forthwith conveyed to the nearest hospital, and there
      pronounced to be still living, although in an asphytic condition.
      After some hours he revived, recognized individuals of his
      acquaintance, and, in broken sentences spoke of his agonies in
      the grave.

From what he related, it was clear that he must have been
      conscious of life for more than an hour, while inhumed, before
      lapsing into insensibility. The grave was carelessly and loosely
      filled with an exceedingly porous soil; and thus some air was
      necessarily admitted. He heard the footsteps of the crowd
      overhead, and endeavored to make himself heard in turn. It was
      the tumult within the grounds of the cemetery, he said, which
      appeared to awaken him from a deep sleep, but no sooner was he
      awake than he became fully aware of the awful horrors of his
      position.

This patient, it is recorded, was doing well and seemed to be in
      a fair way of ultimate recovery, but fell a victim to the
      quackeries of medical experiment. The galvanic battery was
      applied, and he suddenly expired in one of those ecstatic
      paroxysms which, occasionally, it superinduces.

The mention of the galvanic battery, nevertheless, recalls to my
      memory a well known and very extraordinary case in point, where
      its action proved the means of restoring to animation a young
      attorney of London, who had been interred for two days. This
      occurred in 1831, and created, at the time, a very profound
      sensation wherever it was made the subject of converse.