The patient, Mr. Edward Stapleton, had died, apparently of typhus
      fever, accompanied with some anomalous symptoms which had excited
      the curiosity of his medical attendants. Upon his seeming
      decease, his friends were requested to sanction a post-mortem
      examination, but declined to permit it. As often happens, when
      such refusals are made, the practitioners resolved to disinter
      the body and dissect it at leisure, in private. Arrangements were
      easily effected with some of the numerous corps of
      body-snatchers, with which London abounds; and, upon the third
      night after the funeral, the supposed corpse was unearthed from a
      grave eight feet deep, and deposited in the opening chamber of
      one of the private hospitals.

An incision of some extent had been actually made in the abdomen,
      when the fresh and undecayed appearance of the subject suggested
      an application of the battery. One experiment succeeded another,
      and the customary effects supervened, with nothing to
      characterize them in any respect, except, upon one or two
      occasions, a more than ordinary degree of life-likeness in the
      convulsive action.

It grew late. The day was about to dawn; and it was thought
      expedient, at length, to proceed at once to the dissection. A
      student, however, was especially desirous of testing a theory of
      his own, and insisted upon applying the battery to one of the
      pectoral muscles. A rough gash was made, and a wire hastily
      brought in contact, when the patient, with a hurried but quite
      unconvulsive movement, arose from the table, stepped into the
      middle of the floor, gazed about him uneasily for a few seconds,
      and then—spoke. What he said was unintelligible, but words were
      uttered; the syllabification was distinct. Having spoken, he fell
      heavily to the floor.

For some moments all were paralyzed with awe—but the urgency of
      the case soon restored them their presence of mind. It was seen
      that Mr. Stapleton was alive, although in a swoon. Upon
      exhibition of ether he revived and was rapidly restored to
      health, and to the society of his friends—from whom, however, all
      knowledge of his resuscitation was withheld, until a relapse was
      no longer to be apprehended. Their wonder—their rapturous
      astonishment—may be conceived.

The most thrilling peculiarity of this incident, nevertheless, is
      involved in what Mr. S. himself asserts. He declares that at no
      period was he altogether insensible—that, dully and confusedly,
      he was aware of everything which happened to him, from the moment
      in which he was pronounced dead by his physicians, to that in
      which he fell swooning to the floor of the hospital. “I am
      alive,” were the uncomprehended words which, upon recognizing the
      locality of the dissecting-room, he had endeavored, in his
      extremity, to utter.