For several years I had been subject to attacks of the singular
      disorder which physicians have agreed to term catalepsy, in
      default of a more definitive title. Although both the immediate
      and the predisposing causes, and even the actual diagnosis, of
      this disease are still mysterious, its obvious and apparent
      character is sufficiently well understood. Its variations seem to
      be chiefly of degree. Sometimes the patient lies, for a day only,
      or even for a shorter period, in a species of exaggerated
      lethargy. He is senseless and externally motionless; but the
      pulsation of the heart is still faintly perceptible; some traces
      of warmth remain; a slight color lingers within the centre of the
      cheek; and, upon application of a mirror to the lips, we can
      detect a torpid, unequal, and vacillating action of the lungs.
      Then again the duration of the trance is for weeks—even for
      months; while the closest scrutiny, and the most rigorous medical
      tests, fail to establish any material distinction between the
      state of the sufferer and what we conceive of absolute death.
      Very usually he is saved from premature interment solely by the
      knowledge of his friends that he has been previously subject to
      luckily, gradual. The first manifestations, although marked, are
      unequivocal. The fits grow successively more and more
      distinctive, and endure each for a longer term than the
      preceding. In this lies the principal security from inhumation.
      The unfortunate whose first attack should be of the extreme
      character which is occasionally seen, would almost inevitably be
      consigned alive to the tomb.

My own case differed in no important particular from those
      mentioned in medical books. Sometimes, without any apparent
      cause, I sank, little by little, into a condition of
      semi-syncope, or half swoon; and, in this condition, without
      pain, without ability to stir, or, strictly speaking, to think,
      but with a dull lethargic consciousness of life and of the
      presence of those who surrounded my bed, I remained, until the
      crisis of the disease restored me, suddenly, to perfect
      sensation. At other times I was quickly and impetuously smitten.
      I grew sick, and numb, and chilly, and dizzy, and so fell
      prostrate at once. Then, for weeks, all was void, and black, and
      silent, and Nothing became the universe. Total annihilation could
      be no more. From these latter attacks I awoke, however, with a
      gradation slow in proportion to the suddenness of the seizure.
      Just as the day dawns to the friendless and houseless beggar who
      roams the streets throughout the long desolate winter night—just
      so tardily—just so wearily—just so cheerily came back the light
      of the Soul to me.