Phantasies such as these, presenting themselves at night,
      extended their terrific influence far into my waking hours. My
      nerves became thoroughly unstrung, and I fell a prey to perpetual
      horror. I hesitated to ride, or to walk, or to indulge in any
      exercise that would carry me from home. In fact, I no longer
      dared trust myself out of the immediate presence of those who
      were aware of my proneness to catalepsy, lest, falling into one
      of my usual fits, I should be buried before my real condition
      could be ascertained. I doubted the care, the fidelity of my
      dearest friends. I dreaded that, in some trance of more than
      customary duration, they might be prevailed upon to regard me as
      irrecoverable. I even went so far as to fear that, as I
      occasioned much trouble, they might be glad to consider any very
      protracted attack as sufficient excuse for getting rid of me
      altogether. It was in vain they endeavored to reassure me by the
      most solemn promises. I exacted the most sacred oaths, that under
      no circumstances they would bury me until decomposition had so
      materially advanced as to render farther preservation impossible.
      And, even then, my mortal terrors would listen to no reason—would
      accept no consolation. I entered into a series of elaborate
      precautions. Among other things, I had the family vault so
      remodelled as to admit of being readily opened from within. The
      slightest pressure upon a long lever that extended far into the
      tomb would cause the iron portal to fly back. There were
      arrangements also for the free admission of air and light, and
      convenient receptacles for food and water, within immediate reach
      of the coffin intended for my reception. This coffin was warmly
      and softly padded, and was provided with a lid, fashioned upon
      the principle of the vault-door, with the addition of springs so
      contrived that the feeblest movement of the body would be
      sufficient to set it at liberty. Besides all this, there was
      suspended from the roof of the tomb, a large bell, the rope of
      which, it was designed, should extend through a hole in the
      coffin, and so be fastened to one of the hands of the corpse.
      But, alas? what avails the vigilance against the Destiny of man?
      Not even these well-contrived securities sufficed to save from
      the uttermost agonies of living inhumation, a wretch to these
      agonies foredoomed!