There arrived an epoch—as often before there had arrived—in which
      I found myself emerging from total unconsciousness into the first
      feeble and indefinite sense of existence. Slowly—with a tortoise
      gradation—approached the faint gray dawn of the psychal day. A
      torpid uneasiness. An apathetic endurance of dull pain. No
      care—no hope—no effort. Then, after a long interval, a ringing in
      the ears; then, after a lapse still longer, a prickling or
      tingling sensation in the extremities; then a seemingly eternal
      period of pleasurable quiescence, during which the awakening
      feelings are struggling into thought; then a brief re-sinking
      into non-entity; then a sudden recovery. At length the slight
      quivering of an eyelid, and immediately thereupon, an electric
      shock of a terror, deadly and indefinite, which sends the blood
      in torrents from the temples to the heart. And now the first
      positive effort to think. And now the first endeavor to remember.
      And now a partial and evanescent success. And now the memory has
      so far regained its dominion, that, in some measure, I am
      cognizant of my state. I feel that I am not awaking from ordinary
      sleep. I recollect that I have been subject to catalepsy. And
      now, at last, as if by the rush of an ocean, my shuddering spirit
      is overwhelmed by the one grim Danger—by the one spectral and
      ever-prevalent idea.

For some minutes after this fancy possessed me, I remained
      without motion. And why? I could not summon courage to move. I
      dared not make the effort which was to satisfy me of my fate—and
      yet there was something at my heart which whispered me it was
      sure. Despair—such as no other species of wretchedness ever calls
      into being—despair alone urged me, after long irresolution, to
      uplift the heavy lids of my eyes. I uplifted them. It was
      dark—all dark. I knew that the fit was over. I knew that the
      crisis of my disorder had long passed. I knew that I had now
      fully recovered the use of my visual faculties—and yet it was
      dark—all dark—the intense and utter raylessness of the Night that
      endureth for evermore.

I endeavored to shriek; and my lips and my parched tongue moved
      convulsively together in the attempt—but no voice issued from the
      cavernous lungs, which oppressed as if by the weight of some
      incumbent mountain, gasped and palpitated, with the heart, at
      every elaborate and struggling inspiration.

The movement of the jaws, in this effort to cry aloud, showed me
      that they were bound up, as is usual with the dead. I felt, too,
      that I lay upon some hard substance; and by something similar my
      sides were, also, closely compressed. So far, I had not ventured
      to stir any of my limbs—but now I violently threw up my arms,
      which had been lying at length, with the wrists crossed. They
      struck a solid wooden substance, which extended above my person
      at an elevation of not more than six inches from my face. I could
      no longer doubt that I reposed within a coffin at last.