And now, amid all my infinite miseries, came sweetly the cherub
      Hope—for I thought of my precautions. I writhed, and made
      spasmodic exertions to force open the lid: it would not move. I
      felt my wrists for the bell-rope: it was not to be found. And now
      the Comforter fled for ever, and a still sterner Despair reigned
      triumphant; for I could not help perceiving the absence of the
      paddings which I had so carefully prepared—and then, too, there
      came suddenly to my nostrils the strong peculiar odor of moist
      earth. The conclusion was irresistible. I was not within the
      vault. I had fallen into a trance while absent from home—while
      among strangers—when, or how, I could not remember—and it was
      they who had buried me as a dog—nailed up in some common
      coffin—and thrust deep, deep, and for ever, into some ordinary
      and nameless grave.

As this awful conviction forced itself, thus, into the innermost
      chambers of my soul, I once again struggled to cry aloud. And in
      this second endeavor I succeeded. A long, wild, and continuous
      shriek, or yell of agony, resounded through the realms of the
      subterranean Night.

“Hillo! hillo, there!” said a gruff voice, in reply.

“What the devil’s the matter now!” said a second.

“Get out o’ that!” said a third.

“What do you mean by yowling in that ere kind of style, like a
      cattymount?” said a fourth; and hereupon I was seized and shaken
      without ceremony, for several minutes, by a junto of very
      rough-looking individuals. They did not arouse me from my
      slumber—for I was wide awake when I screamed—but they restored me
      to the full possession of my memory.

miles down the banks of the James River. Night approached, and we
      were overtaken by a storm. The cabin of a small sloop lying at
      anchor in the stream, and laden with garden mould, afforded us
      the only available shelter. We made the best of it, and passed
      the night on board. I slept in one of the only two berths in the
      vessel—and the berths of a sloop of sixty or twenty tons need
      scarcely be described. That which I occupied had no bedding of
      any kind. Its extreme width was eighteen inches. The distance of
      its bottom from the deck overhead was precisely the same. I found
      it a matter of exceeding difficulty to squeeze myself in.
      Nevertheless, I slept soundly, and the whole of my vision—for it
      was no dream, and no nightmare—arose naturally from the
      circumstances of my position—from my ordinary bias of thought—and
      from the difficulty, to which I have alluded, of collecting my
      senses, and especially of regaining my memory, for a long time
      after awaking from slumber. The men who shook me were the crew of
      the sloop, and some laborers engaged to unload it. From the load
      itself came the earthly smell. The bandage about the jaws was a
      silk handkerchief in which I had bound up my head, in default of
      my customary nightcap.