The tortures endured, however, were indubitably quite equal for
      the time, to those of actual sepulture. They were fearfully—they
      were inconceivably hideous; but out of Evil proceeded Good; for
      their very excess wrought in my spirit an inevitable revulsion.
      My soul acquired tone—acquired temper. I went abroad. I took
      vigorous exercise. I breathed the free air of Heaven. I thought
      upon other subjects than Death. I discarded my medical books.
      “Buchan” I burned. I read no “Night Thoughts”—no fustian about
      churchyards—no bugaboo tales—such as this. In short, I became a
      new man, and lived a man’s life. From that memorable night, I
      dismissed forever my charnel apprehensions, and with them
      vanished the cataleptic disorder, of which, perhaps, they had
      been less the consequence than the cause.

There are moments when, even to the sober eye of Reason, the
      world of our sad Humanity may assume the semblance of a Hell—but
      the imagination of man is no Carathis, to explore with impunity
      its every cavern. Alas! the grim legion of sepulchral terrors
      cannot be regarded as altogether fanciful—but, like the Demons in
      whose company Afrasiab made his voyage down the Oxus, they must
      sleep, or they will devour us—they must be suffered to slumber,
      or we perish.

THE DOMAIN OF ARNHEIM

The garden like a lady fair was cut,
    That lay as if she slumbered in delight,
And to the open skies her eyes did shut.
    The azure fields of Heaven were ’sembled right
    In a large round, set with the flowers of light.
The flowers de luce, and the round sparks of dew
That hung upon their azure leaves did shew
Like twinkling stars that sparkle in the evening blue.
                    —_Giles Fletcher_.

From his cradle to his grave a gale of prosperity bore my friend
      Ellison along. Nor do I use the word prosperity in its mere
      worldly sense. I mean it as synonymous with happiness. The person
      of whom I speak seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the
      doctrines of Turgot, Price, Priestley, and Condorcet—of
      exemplifying by individual instance what has been deemed the
      chimera of the perfectionists. In the brief existence of Ellison
      I fancy that I have seen refuted the dogma, that in man’s very
      nature lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of bliss. An
      anxious examination of his career has given me to understand that
      in general, from the violation of a few simple laws of humanity
      arises the wretchedness of mankind—that as a species we have in
      our possession the as yet unwrought elements of content—and that,
      even now, in the present darkness and madness of all thought on
      the great question of the social condition, it is not impossible
      that man, the individual, under certain unusual and highly
      fortuitous conditions, may be happy.