With opinions such as these my young friend, too, was fully
      imbued, and thus it is worthy of observation that the
      uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was, in
      great measure, the result of preconcert. It is indeed evident
      that with less of the instinctive philosophy which, now and then,
      stands so well in the stead of experience, Mr. Ellison would have
      found himself precipitated, by the very extraordinary success of
      his life, into the common vortex of unhappiness which yawns for
      those of pre-eminent endowments. But it is by no means my object
      to pen an essay on happiness. The ideas of my friend may be
      summed up in a few words. He admitted but four elementary
      principles, or more strictly, conditions of bliss. That which he
      considered chief was (strange to say!) the simple and purely
      physical one of free exercise in the open air. “The health,” he
      said, “attainable by other means is scarcely worth the name.” He
      instanced the ecstasies of the fox-hunter, and pointed to the
      tillers of the earth, the only people who, as a class, can be
      fairly considered happier than others. His second condition was
      the love of woman. His third, and most difficult of realization,
      was the contempt of ambition. His fourth was an object of
      unceasing pursuit; and he held that, other things being equal,
      the extent of attainable happiness was in proportion to the
      spirituality of this object.

Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts
      lavished upon him by fortune. In personal grace and beauty he
      exceeded all men. His intellect was of that order to which the
      acquisition of knowledge is less a labor than an intuition and a
      necessity. His family was one of the most illustrious of the
      empire. His bride was the loveliest and most devoted of women.
      His possessions had been always ample; but on the attainment of
      his majority, it was discovered that one of those extraordinary
      freaks of fate had been played in his behalf which startle the
      whole social world amid which they occur, and seldom fail
      radically to alter the moral constitution of those who are their
      objects.