It appears that about a hundred years before Mr. Ellison’s coming
      of age, there had died, in a remote province, one Mr. Seabright
      Ellison. This gentleman had amassed a princely fortune, and,
      having no immediate connections, conceived the whim of suffering
      his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease.
      Minutely and sagaciously directing the various modes of
      investment, he bequeathed the aggregate amount to the nearest of
      blood, bearing the name of Ellison, who should be alive at the
      end of the hundred years. Many attempts had been made to set
      aside this singular bequest; their ex post facto character
      rendered them abortive; but the attention of a jealous government
      was aroused, and a legislative act finally obtained, forbidding
      all similar accumulations. This act, however, did not prevent
      young Ellison from entering into possession, on his twenty-first
      birthday, as the heir of his ancestor Seabright, of a fortune of
      four hundred and fifty millions of dollars. (*1)

When it had become known that such was the enormous wealth
      inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the
      mode of its disposal. The magnitude and the immediate
      availability of the sum bewildered all who thought on the topic.
      The possessor of any appreciable amount of money might have been
      imagined to perform any one of a thousand things. With riches
      merely surpassing those of any citizen, it would have been easy
      to suppose him engaging to supreme excess in the fashionable
      extravagances of his time—or busying himself with political
      intrigue—or aiming at ministerial power—or purchasing increase of
      nobility—or collecting large museums of virtu—or playing the
      munificent patron of letters, of science, of art—or endowing, and
      bestowing his name upon extensive institutions of charity. But
      for the inconceivable wealth in the actual possession of the
      heir, these objects and all ordinary objects were felt to afford
      too limited a field. Recourse was had to figures, and these but
      sufficed to confound. It was seen that, even at three per cent.,
      the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than
      thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was
      one million and one hundred and twenty-five thousand per month;
      or thirty-six thousand nine hundred and eighty-six per day; or
      one thousand five hundred and forty-one per hour; or six and
      twenty dollars for every minute that flew. Thus the usual track
      of supposition was thoroughly broken up. Men knew not what to
      imagine. There were some who even conceived that Mr. Ellison
      would divest himself of at least one-half of his fortune, as of
      utterly superfluous opulence—enriching whole troops of his
      relatives by division of his superabundance. To the nearest of
      these he did, in fact, abandon the very unusual wealth which was
      his own before the inheritance.