I was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made
      up his mind on a point which had occasioned so much discussion to
      his friends. Nor was I greatly astonished at the nature of his
      decision. In regard to individual charities he had satisfied his
      conscience. In the possibility of any improvement, properly so
      called, being effected by man himself in the general condition of
      man, he had (I am sorry to confess it) little faith. Upon the
      whole, whether happily or unhappily, he was thrown back, in very
      great measure, upon self.

In the widest and noblest sense he was a poet. He comprehended,
      moreover, the true character, the august aims, the supreme
      majesty and dignity of the poetic sentiment. The fullest, if not
      the sole proper satisfaction of this sentiment he instinctively
      felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of beauty. Some
      peculiarities, either in his early education, or in the nature of
      his intellect, had tinged with what is termed materialism all his
      ethical speculations; and it was this bias, perhaps, which led
      him to believe that the most advantageous at least, if not the
      sole legitimate field for the poetic exercise, lies in the
      creation of novel moods of purely physical loveliness. Thus it
      happened he became neither musician nor poet—if we use this
      latter term in its every-day acceptation. Or it might have been
      that he neglected to become either, merely in pursuance of his
      idea that in contempt of ambition is to be found one of the
      essential principles of happiness on earth. Is it not indeed,
      possible that, while a high order of genius is necessarily
      ambitious, the highest is above that which is termed ambition?
      And may it not thus happen that many far greater than Milton have
      contentedly remained “mute and inglorious?” I believe that the
      world has never seen—and that, unless through some series of
      accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful
      exertion, the world will never see—that full extent of triumphant
      execution, in the richer domains of art, of which the human
      nature is absolutely capable.