“Its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth.” In
      his explanation of this phraseology, Mr. Ellison did much toward
      solving what has always seemed to me an enigma:—I mean the fact
      (which none but the ignorant dispute) that no such combination of
      scenery exists in nature as the painter of genius may produce. No
      such paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed on the
      canvas of Claude. In the most enchanting of natural landscapes,
      there will always be found a defect or an excess—many excesses
      and defects. While the component parts may defy, individually,
      the highest skill of the artist, the arrangement of these parts
      will always be susceptible of improvement. In short, no position
      can be attained on the wide surface of the natural earth, from
      which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter
      of offence in what is termed the “composition” of the landscape.
      And yet how unintelligible is this! In all other matters we are
      justly instructed to regard nature as supreme. With her details
      we shrink from competition. Who shall presume to imitate the
      colors of the tulip, or to improve the proportions of the lily of
      the valley? The criticism which says, of sculpture or
      portraiture, that here nature is to be exalted or idealized
      rather than imitated, is in error. No pictorial or sculptural
      combinations of points of human liveliness do more than approach
      the living and breathing beauty. In landscape alone is the
      principle of the critic true; and, having felt its truth here, it
      is but the headlong spirit of generalization which has led him to
      pronounce it true throughout all the domains of art. Having, I
      say, felt its truth here; for the feeling is no affectation or
      chimera. The mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations
      than the sentiments of his art yields the artist. He not only
      believes, but positively knows, that such and such apparently
      arbitrary arrangements of matter constitute and alone constitute
      the true beauty. His reasons, however, have not yet been matured
      into expression. It remains for a more profound analysis than the
      world has yet seen, fully to investigate and express them.
      Nevertheless he is confirmed in his instinctive opinions by the
      voice of all his brethren. Let a “composition” be defective; let
      an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let
      this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by
      each will its necessity be admitted. And even far more than this;
      in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of
      the fraternity would have suggested the identical emendation.