I repeat that in landscape arrangements alone is the physical
      nature susceptible of exaltation, and that, therefore, her
      susceptibility of improvement at this one point, was a mystery I
      had been unable to solve. My own thoughts on the subject had
      rested in the idea that the primitive intention of nature would
      have so arranged the earth’s surface as to have fulfilled at all
      points man’s sense of perfection in the beautiful, the sublime,
      or the picturesque; but that this primitive intention had been
      frustrated by the known geological disturbances—disturbances of
      form and color—grouping, in the correction or allaying of which
      lies the soul of art. The force of this idea was much weakened,
      however, by the necessity which it involved of considering the
      disturbances abnormal and unadapted to any purpose. It was
      Ellison who suggested that they were prognostic of death. He thus
      explained:—Admit the earthly immortality of man to have been the
      first intention. We have then the primitive arrangement of the
      earth’s surface adapted to his blissful estate, as not existent
      but designed. The disturbances were the preparations for his
      subsequently conceived deathful condition.

“Now,” said my friend, “what we regard as exaltation of the
      landscape may be really such, as respects only the moral or human
      point of view. Each alteration of the natural scenery may
      possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we can suppose this
      picture viewed at large—in mass—from some point distant from the
      earth’s surface, although not beyond the limits of its
      atmosphere. It is easily understood that what might improve a
      closely scrutinized detail, may at the same time injure a general
      or more distantly observed effect. There may be a class of
      beings, human once, but now invisible to humanity, to whom, from
      afar, our disorder may seem order—our unpicturesqueness
      picturesque; in a word, the earth-angels, for whose scrutiny more
      especially than our own, and for whose death-refined appreciation
      of the beautiful, may have been set in array by God the wide
      landscape-gardens of the hemispheres.”

In the course of discussion, my friend quoted some passages from
      a writer on landscape-gardening who has been supposed to have
      well treated his theme: