“From what I have already observed,” said Ellison, “you will
      understand that I reject the idea, here expressed, of recalling
      the original beauty of the country. The original beauty is never
      so great as that which may be introduced. Of course, every thing
      depends on the selection of a spot with capabilities. What is
      said about detecting and bringing into practice nice relations of
      size, proportion, and color, is one of those mere vaguenesses of
      speech which serve to veil inaccuracy of thought. The phrase
      quoted may mean any thing, or nothing, and guides in no degree.
      That the true result of the natural style of gardening is seen
      rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities than in
      the creation of any special wonders or miracles, is a proposition
      better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd than to
      the fervid dreams of the man of genius. The negative merit
      suggested appertains to that hobbling criticism which, in
      letters, would elevate Addison into apotheosis. In truth, while
      that virtue which consists in the mere avoidance of vice appeals
      directly to the understanding, and can thus be circumscribed in
      rule, the loftier virtue, which flames in creation, can be
      apprehended in its results alone. Rule applies but to the merits
      of denial—to the excellencies which refrain. Beyond these, the
      critical art can but suggest. We may be instructed to build a
      “Cato,” but we are in vain told how to conceive a Parthenon or an
      “Inferno.” The thing done, however; the wonder accomplished; and
      the capacity for apprehension becomes universal. The sophists of
      the negative school who, through inability to create, have
      scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause. What,
      in its chrysalis condition of principle, affronted their demure
      reason, never fails, in its maturity of accomplishment, to extort
      admiration from their instinct of beauty.