“The author’s observations on the artificial style,” continued
      Ellison, “are less objectionable. A mixture of pure art in a
      garden scene adds to it a great beauty. This is just; as also is
      the reference to the sense of human interest. The principle
      expressed is incontrovertible—but there may be something beyond
      it. There may be an object in keeping with the principle—an
      object unattainable by the means ordinarily possessed by
      individuals, yet which, if attained, would lend a charm to the
      landscape-garden far surpassing that which a sense of merely
      human interest could bestow. A poet, having very unusual
      pecuniary resources, might, while retaining the necessary idea of
      art or culture, or, as our author expresses it, of interest, so
      imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of beauty, as
      to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference. It will be
      seen that, in bringing about such result, he secures all the
      advantages of interest or design, while relieving his work of the
      harshness or technicality of the worldly art. In the most rugged
      of wildernesses—in the most savage of the scenes of pure
      nature—there is apparent the art of a creator; yet this art is
      apparent to reflection only; in no respect has it the obvious
      force of a feeling. Now let us suppose this sense of the Almighty
      design to be one step depressed—to be brought into something like
      harmony or consistency with the sense of human art—to form an
      intermedium between the two:—let us imagine, for example, a
      landscape whose combined vastness and definitiveness—whose united
      beauty, magnificence, and strangeness, shall convey the idea of
      care, or culture, or superintendence, on the part of beings
      superior, yet akin to humanity—then the sentiment of interest is
      preserved, while the art intervolved is made to assume the air of
      an intermediate or secondary nature—a nature which is not God,
      nor an emanation from God, but which still is nature in the sense
      of the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God.”

It was in devoting his enormous wealth to the embodiment of a
      object which these plans afforded—in the high spirituality of the
      object—in the contempt of ambition which it enabled him truly to
      feel—in the perennial springs with which it gratified, without
      possibility of satiating, that one master passion of his soul,
      the thirst for beauty, above all, it was in the sympathy of a
      woman, not unwomanly, whose loveliness and love enveloped his
      existence in the purple atmosphere of Paradise, that Ellison
      thought to find, and found, exemption from the ordinary cares of
      humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than
      ever glowed in the rapt day-dreams of De Staël.

I despair of conveying to the reader any distinct conception of
      the marvels which my friend did actually accomplish. I wish to
      describe, but am disheartened by the difficulty of description,
      and hesitate between detail and generality. Perhaps the better
      course will be to unite the two in their extremes.