Mr. Ellison’s first step regarded, of course, the choice of a
      locality, and scarcely had he commenced thinking on this point,
      when the luxuriant nature of the Pacific Islands arrested his
      attention. In fact, he had made up his mind for a voyage to the
      South Seas, when a night’s reflection induced him to abandon the
      idea. “Were I misanthropic,” he said, “such a locale would suit
      me. The thoroughness of its insulation and seclusion, and the
      difficulty of ingress and egress, would in such case be the charm
      of charms; but as yet I am not Timon. I wish the composure but
      not the depression of solitude. There must remain with me a
      certain control over the extent and duration of my repose. There
      will be frequent hours in which I shall need, too, the sympathy
      of the poetic in what I have done. Let me seek, then, a spot not
      far from a populous city—whose vicinity, also, will best enable
      me to execute my plans.”

In search of a suitable place so situated, Ellison travelled for
      several years, and I was permitted to accompany him. A thousand
      spots with which I was enraptured he rejected without hesitation,
      for reasons which satisfied me, in the end, that he was right. We
      came at length to an elevated table-land of wonderful fertility
      and beauty, affording a panoramic prospect very little less in
      extent than that of Aetna, and, in Ellison’s opinion as well as
      my own, surpassing the far-famed view from that mountain in all
      the true elements of the picturesque.

“I am aware,” said the traveller, as he drew a sigh of deep
      delight after gazing on this scene, entranced, for nearly an
      hour, “I know that here, in my circumstances, nine-tenths of the
      most fastidious of men would rest content. This panorama is
      indeed glorious, and I should rejoice in it but for the excess of
      its glory. The taste of all the architects I have ever known
      leads them, for the sake of ‘prospect,’ to put up buildings on
      hill-tops. The error is obvious. Grandeur in any of its moods,
      but especially in that of extent, startles, excites—and then
      fatigues, depresses. For the occasional scene nothing can be
      better—for the constant view nothing worse. And, in the constant
      view, the most objectionable phase of grandeur is that of extent;
      the worst phase of extent, that of distance. It is at war with
      the sentiment and with the sense of seclusion—the sentiment and
      sense which we seek to humor in ‘retiring to the country.’ In
      looking from the summit of a mountain we cannot help feeling
      abroad in the world. The heart-sick avoid distant prospects as a
      pestilence.”