The usual approach to Arnheim was by the river. The visitor left
      the city in the early morning. During the forenoon he passed
      between shores of a tranquil and domestic beauty, on which grazed
      innumerable sheep, their white fleeces spotting the vivid green
      of rolling meadows. By degrees the idea of cultivation subsided
      into that of merely pastoral care. This slowly became merged in a
      sense of retirement—this again in a consciousness of solitude. As
      the evening approached, the channel grew more narrow; the banks
      more and more precipitous; and these latter were clothed in rich,
      more profuse, and more sombre foliage. The water increased in
      transparency. The stream took a thousand turns, so that at no
      moment could its gleaming surface be seen for a greater distance
      than a furlong. At every instant the vessel seemed imprisoned
      within an enchanted circle, having insuperable and impenetrable
      walls of foliage, a roof of ultramarine satin, and no floor—the
      keel balancing itself with admirable nicety on that of a phantom
      bark which, by some accident having been turned upside down,
      floated in constant company with the substantial one, for the
      purpose of sustaining it. The channel now became a gorge—although
      the term is somewhat inapplicable, and I employ it merely because
      the language has no word which better represents the most
      striking—not the most distinctive—feature of the scene. The
      character of gorge was maintained only in the height and
      parallelism of the shores; it was lost altogether in their other
      traits. The walls of the ravine (through which the clear water
      still tranquilly flowed) arose to an elevation of a hundred and
      occasionally of a hundred and fifty feet, and inclined so much
      toward each other as, in a great measure, to shut out the light
      of day; while the long plume-like moss which depended densely
      from the intertwining shrubberies overhead, gave the whole chasm
      an air of funereal gloom. The windings became more frequent and
      intricate, and seemed often as if returning in upon themselves,
      so that the voyager had long lost all idea of direction. He was,
      moreover, enwrapt in an exquisite sense of the strange. The
      thought of nature still remained, but her character seemed to
      have undergone modification, there was a weird symmetry, a
      thrilling uniformity, a wizard propriety in these her works. Not
      a dead branch—not a withered leaf—not a stray pebble—not a patch
      of the brown earth was anywhere visible. The crystal water welled
      up against the clean granite, or the unblemished moss, with a
      sharpness of outline that delighted while it bewildered the eye.