The canoe steadily proceeds, and the rocky gate of the vista is
      approached, so that its depths can be more distinctly seen. To
      the right arise a chain of lofty hills rudely and luxuriantly
      wooded. It is observed, however, that the trait of exquisite
      cleanness where the bank dips into the water, still prevails.
      There is not one token of the usual river _débris_. To the left
      the character of the scene is softer and more obviously
      artificial. Here the bank slopes upward from the stream in a very
      gentle ascent, forming a broad sward of grass of a texture
      resembling nothing so much as velvet, and of a brilliancy of
      green which would bear comparison with the tint of the purest
      emerald. This plateau varies in width from ten to three hundred
      yards; reaching from the river-bank to a wall, fifty feet high,
      which extends, in an infinity of curves, but following the
      general direction of the river, until lost in the distance to the
      westward. This wall is of one continuous rock, and has been
      formed by cutting perpendicularly the once rugged precipice of
      the stream’s southern bank, but no trace of the labor has been
      suffered to remain. The chiselled stone has the hue of ages, and
      is profusely overhung and overspread with the ivy, the coral
      honeysuckle, the eglantine, and the clematis. The uniformity of
      the top and bottom lines of the wall is fully relieved by
      occasional trees of gigantic height, growing singly or in small
      groups, both along the plateau and in the domain behind the wall,
      but in close proximity to it; so that frequent limbs (of the
      black walnut especially) reach over and dip their pendent
      extremities into the water. Farther back within the domain, the
      vision is impeded by an impenetrable screen of foliage.

These things are observed during the canoe’s gradual approach to
      what I have called the gate of the vista. On drawing nearer to
      this, however, its chasm-like appearance vanishes; a new outlet
      from the bay is discovered to the left—in which direction the
      wall is also seen to sweep, still following the general course of
      the stream. Down this new opening the eye cannot penetrate very
      far; for the stream, accompanied by the wall, still bends to the
      left, until both are swallowed up by the leaves.

The boat, nevertheless, glides magically into the winding
      channel; and here the shore opposite the wall is found to
      resemble that opposite the wall in the straight vista. Lofty
      hills, rising occasionally into mountains, and covered with
      vegetation in wild luxuriance, still shut in the scene.