What to make of all this, of course I knew not. Here was art
      undoubtedly—that did not surprise me—all roads, in the ordinary
      sense, are works of art; nor can I say that there was much to
      wonder at in the mere excess of art manifested; all that seemed
      to have been done, might have been done here—with such natural
      “capabilities” (as they have it in the books on Landscape
      Gardening)—with very little labor and expense. No; it was not the
      amount but the character of the art which caused me to take a
      seat on one of the blossomy stones and gaze up and down this
      fairy-like avenue for half an hour or more in bewildered
      admiration. One thing became more and more evident the longer I
      gazed: an artist, and one with a most scrupulous eye for form,
      had superintended all these arrangements. The greatest care had
      been taken to preserve a due medium between the neat and graceful
      on the one hand, and the pittoresque, in the true sense of the
      Italian term, on the other. There were few straight, and no long
      uninterrupted lines. The same effect of curvature or of color
      appeared twice, usually, but not oftener, at any one point of
      view. Everywhere was variety in uniformity. It was a piece of
      “composition,” in which the most fastidiously critical taste
      could scarcely have suggested an emendation.

I had turned to the right as I entered this road, and now,
      arising, I continued in the same direction. The path was so
      serpentine, that at no moment could I trace its course for more
      than two or three paces in advance. Its character did not undergo
      any material change.

Presently the murmur of water fell gently upon my ear—and in a
      few moments afterward, as I turned with the road somewhat more
      abruptly than hitherto, I became aware that a building of some
      kind lay at the foot of a gentle declivity just before me. I
      could see nothing distinctly on account of the mist which
      occupied all the little valley below. A gentle breeze, however,
      now arose, as the sun was about descending; and while I remained
      standing on the brow of the slope, the fog gradually became
      dissipated into wreaths, and so floated over the scene.

the summit of a chimney, I could scarcely help fancying that the
      whole was one of the ingenious illusions sometimes exhibited

the sun had made its way down behind the gentle hills, and
      thence, as if with a slight chassez to the south, had come again
      fully into sight, glaring with a purplish lustre through a chasm
      that entered the valley from the west. Suddenly, therefore—and as
      if by the hand of magic—this whole valley and every thing in it
      became brilliantly visible.