The little vale into which I thus peered down from under the fog
      canopy could not have been more than four hundred yards long;
      while in breadth it varied from fifty to one hundred and fifty or
      perhaps two hundred. It was most narrow at its northern
      extremity, opening out as it tended southwardly, but with no very
      precise regularity. The widest portion was within eighty yards of
      the southern extreme. The slopes which encompassed the vale could
      not fairly be called hills, unless at their northern face. Here a
      precipitous ledge of granite arose to a height of some ninety
      feet; and, as I have mentioned, the valley at this point was not
      more than fifty feet wide; but as the visitor proceeded
      southwardly from the cliff, he found on his right hand and on his
      left, declivities at once less high, less precipitous, and less
      rocky. All, in a word, sloped and softened to the south; and yet
      the whole vale was engirdled by eminences, more or less high,
      except at two points. One of these I have already spoken of. It
      lay considerably to the north of west, and was where the setting
      sun made its way, as I have before described, into the
      amphitheatre, through a cleanly cut natural cleft in the granite
      embankment; this fissure might have been ten yards wide at its
      widest point, so far as the eye could trace it. It seemed to lead
      up, up like a natural causeway, into the recesses of unexplored
      mountains and forests. The other opening was directly at the
      southern end of the vale. Here, generally, the slopes were
      nothing more than gentle inclinations, extending from east to
      west about one hundred and fifty yards. In the middle of this
      extent was a depression, level with the ordinary floor of the
      valley. As regards vegetation, as well as in respect to every
      thing else, the scene softened and sloped to the south. To the
      north—on the craggy precipice—a few paces from the verge—up
      sprang the magnificent trunks of numerous hickories, black
      walnuts, and chestnuts, interspersed with occasional oak; and the
      strong lateral branches thrown out by the walnuts especially,
      spread far over the edge of the cliff. Proceeding southwardly,
      the explorer saw, at first, the same class of trees, but less and
      less lofty and Salvatorish in character; then he saw the gentler
      elm, succeeded by the sassafras and locust—these again by the
      softer linden, red-bud, catalpa, and maple—these yet again by
      still more graceful and more modest varieties. The whole face of
      the southern declivity was covered with wild shrubbery alone—an
      occasional silver willow or white poplar excepted. In the bottom
      of the valley itself—(for it must be borne in mind that the
      vegetation hitherto mentioned grew only on the cliffs or
      hillsides)—were to be seen three insulated trees. One was an elm
      of fine size and exquisite form: it stood guard over the southern
      gate of the vale.