The general floor of the amphitheatre was grass of the same
      character as that I had found in the road; if anything, more
      deliciously soft, thick, velvety, and miraculously green. It was
      hard to conceive how all this beauty had been attained.

I have spoken of two openings into the vale. From the one to the
      northwest issued a rivulet, which came, gently murmuring and
      slightly foaming, down the ravine, until it dashed against the
      group of rocks out of which sprang the insulated hickory. Here,
      after encircling the tree, it passed on a little to the north of
      east, leaving the tulip tree some twenty feet to the south, and
      making no decided alteration in its course until it came near the
      midway between the eastern and western boundaries of the valley.
      At this point, after a series of sweeps, it turned off at right
      angles and pursued a generally southern direction meandering as
      it went—until it became lost in a small lake of irregular figure
      (although roughly oval), that lay gleaming near the lower
      extremity of the vale. This lakelet was, perhaps, a hundred yards
      in diameter at its widest part. No crystal could be clearer than
      its waters. Its bottom, which could be distinctly seen, consisted
      altogether, of pebbles brilliantly white. Its banks, of the
      emerald grass already described, rounded, rather than sloped, off
      into the clear heaven below; and so clear was this heaven, so
      perfectly, at times, did it reflect all objects above it, that
      where the true bank ended and where the mimic one commenced, it
      was a point of no little difficulty to determine. The trout, and
      some other varieties of fish, with which this pond seemed to be
      almost inconveniently crowded, had all the appearance of
      veritable flying-fish. It was almost impossible to believe that
      they were not absolutely suspended in the air. A light birch
      canoe that lay placidly on the water, was reflected in its
      minutest fibres with a fidelity unsurpassed by the most
      exquisitely polished mirror. A small island, fairly laughing with
      flowers in full bloom, and affording little more space than just
      enough for a picturesque little building, seemingly a
      fowl-house—arose from the lake not far from its northern shore—to
      which it was connected by means of an inconceivably light-looking
      and yet very primitive bridge. It was formed of a single, broad
      and thick plank of the tulip wood. This was forty feet long, and
      spanned the interval between shore and shore with a slight but
      very perceptible arch, preventing all oscillation. From the
      southern extreme of the lake issued a continuation of the
      rivulet, which, after meandering for, perhaps, thirty yards,
      finally passed through the “depression” (already described) in
      the middle of the southern declivity, and tumbling down a sheer
      precipice of a hundred feet, made its devious and unnoticed way
      to the Hudson.