The lake was deep—at some points thirty feet—but the rivulet
      seldom exceeded three, while its greatest width was about eight.
      Its bottom and banks were as those of the pond—if a defect could
      have been attributed, in point of picturesqueness, it was that of
      excessive neatness.

The expanse of the green turf was relieved, here and there, by an
      occasional showy shrub, such as the hydrangea, or the common
      snowball, or the aromatic seringa; or, more frequently, by a
      clump of geraniums blossoming gorgeously in great varieties.
      These latter grew in pots which were carefully buried in the
      soil, so as to give the plants the appearance of being
      indigenous. Besides all this, the lawn’s velvet was exquisitely
      spotted with sheep—a considerable flock of which roamed about the
      vale, in company with three tamed deer, and a vast number of
      brilliantly-plumed ducks. A very large mastiff seemed to be in
      vigilant attendance upon these animals, each and all.

Along the eastern and western cliffs—where, toward the upper
      portion of the amphitheatre, the boundaries were more or less
      precipitous—grew ivy in great profusion—so that only here and
      there could even a glimpse of the naked rock be obtained. The
      at the base of the cliff, and others from ledges on its face.

The slight elevation which formed the lower boundary of this
      little domain, was crowned by a neat stone wall, of sufficient
      height to prevent the escape of the deer. Nothing of the fence
      kind was observable elsewhere; for nowhere else was an artificial
      enclosure needed:—any stray sheep, for example, which should
      attempt to make its way out of the vale by means of the ravine,
      would find its progress arrested, after a few yards’ advance, by
      the precipitous ledge of rock over which tumbled the cascade that
      had arrested my attention as I first drew near the domain. In
      short, the only ingress or egress was through a gate occupying a
      rocky pass in the road, a few paces below the point at which I
      stopped to reconnoitre the scene.

I have described the brook as meandering very irregularly through
      the whole of its course. Its two general directions, as I have
      said, were first from west to east, and then from north to south.
      At the turn, the stream, sweeping backward, made an almost
      circular loop, so as to form a peninsula which was very nearly an
      island, and which included about the sixteenth of an acre. On
      this peninsula stood a dwelling-house—and when I say that this
      house, like the infernal terrace seen by Vathek, “etait d’une
      architecture inconnue dans les annales de la terre,” I mean,
      merely, that its tout ensemble struck me with the keenest sense
      of combined novelty and propriety—in a word, of poetry—(for, than
      in the words just employed, I could scarcely give, of poetry in
      the abstract, a more rigorous definition)—and I do not mean that
      merely outre was perceptible in any respect.