The blank wall of the eastern gable was relieved by stairs (with
      a balustrade) running diagonally across it—the ascent being from
      the south. Under cover of the widely projecting eave these steps
      gave access to a door leading to the garret, or rather loft—for
      it was lighted only by a single window to the north, and seemed
      to have been intended as a store-room.

The piazzas of the main building and western wing had no floors,
      as is usual; but at the doors and at each window, large, flat
      irregular slabs of granite lay imbedded in the delicious turf,
      affording comfortable footing in all weather. Excellent paths of
      the same material—not nicely adapted, but with the velvety sod
      filling frequent intervals between the stones, led hither and
      thither from the house, to a crystal spring about five paces off,
      to the road, or to one or two out-houses that lay to the north,
      beyond the brook, and were thoroughly concealed by a few locusts
      and catalpas.

Not more than six steps from the main door of the cottage stood
      the dead trunk of a fantastic pear-tree, so clothed from head to
      foot in the gorgeous bignonia blossoms that one required no
      little scrutiny to determine what manner of sweet thing it could
      be. From various arms of this tree hung cages of different kinds.
      In one, a large wicker cylinder with a ring at top, revelled a
      mocking bird; in another an oriole; in a third the impudent
      bobolink—while three or four more delicate prisons were loudly
      vocal with canaries.

The pillars of the piazza were enwreathed in jasmine and sweet
      honeysuckle; while from the angle formed by the main structure
      and its west wing, in front, sprang a grape-vine of unexampled
      luxuriance. Scorning all restraint, it had clambered first to the
      lower roof—then to the higher; and along the ridge of this latter
      it continued to writhe on, throwing out tendrils to the right and
      left, until at length it fairly attained the east gable, and fell
      trailing over the stairs.

The whole house, with its wings, was constructed of the
      old-fashioned Dutch shingles—broad, and with unrounded corners.
      It is a peculiarity of this material to give houses built of it
      the appearance of being wider at bottom than at top—after the
      manner of Egyptian architecture; and in the present instance,
      this exceedingly picturesque effect was aided by numerous pots of
      gorgeous flowers that almost encompassed the base of the
      buildings.

The shingles were painted a dull gray; and the happiness with
      which this neutral tint melted into the vivid green of the tulip
      tree leaves that partially overshadowed the cottage, can readily
      be conceived by an artist.