It is not the purpose of this work to do more than give in
      detail, a picture of Mr. Landor’s residence—as I found it. How he
      made it what it was—and why—with some particulars of Mr. Landor
      himself—may, possibly form the subject of another article.

WILLIAM WILSON

What say of it? what say of CONSCIENCE grim,
    That spectre in my path?
                    —_Chamberlayne’s Pharronida._

Let me call myself, for the present, William Wilson. The fair
      page now lying before me need not be sullied with my real
      appellation. This has been already too much an object for the
      scorn—for the horror—for the detestation of my race. To the
      uttermost regions of the globe have not the indignant winds
      bruited its unparalleled infamy? Oh, outcast of all outcasts most
      abandoned!—to the earth art thou not forever dead? to its honors,
      to its flowers, to its golden aspirations?—and a cloud, dense,
      dismal, and limitless, does it not hang eternally between thy
      hopes and heaven?

I would not, if I could, here or to-day, embody a record of my
      later years of unspeakable misery, and unpardonable crime. This
      epoch—these later years—took unto themselves a sudden elevation
      in turpitude, whose origin alone it is my present purpose to
      assign. Men usually grow base by degrees. From me, in an instant,
      all virtue dropped bodily as a mantle. From comparatively trivial
      wickedness I passed, with the stride of a giant, into more than
      the enormities of an Elah-Gabalus. What chance—what one event
      brought this evil thing to pass, bear with me while I relate.
      Death approaches; and the shadow which foreruns him has thrown a
      softening influence over my spirit. I long, in passing through
      the dim valley, for the sympathy—I had nearly said for the
      pity—of my fellow men. I would fain have them believe that I have
      been, in some measure, the slave of circumstances beyond human
      control. I would wish them to seek out for me, in the details I
      am about to give, some little oasis of fatality amid a wilderness
      of error. I would have them allow—what they cannot refrain from
      allowing—that, although temptation may have erewhile existed as
      great, man was never thus, at least, tempted before—certainly,
      never thus fell. And is it therefore that he has never thus
      suffered? Have I not indeed been living in a dream? And am I not
      now dying a victim to the horror and the mystery of the wildest
      of all sublunary visions?