I am the descendant of a race whose imaginative and easily
      excitable temperament has at all times rendered them remarkable;
      and, in my earliest infancy, I gave evidence of having fully
      inherited the family character. As I advanced in years it was
      more strongly developed; becoming, for many reasons, a cause of
      serious disquietude to my friends, and of positive injury to
      myself. I grew self-willed, addicted to the wildest caprices, and
      a prey to the most ungovernable passions. Weak-minded, and beset
      with constitutional infirmities akin to my own, my parents could
      do but little to check the evil propensities which distinguished
      me. Some feeble and ill-directed efforts resulted in complete
      failure on their part, and, of course, in total triumph on mine.
      Thenceforward my voice was a household law; and at an age when
      few children have abandoned their leading-strings, I was left to
      the guidance of my own will, and became, in all but name, the
      master of my own actions.

My earliest recollections of a school-life, are connected with a
      large, rambling, Elizabethan house, in a misty-looking village of
      England, where were a vast number of gigantic and gnarled trees,
      and where all the houses were excessively ancient. In truth, it
      was a dream-like and spirit-soothing place, that venerable old
      town. At this moment, in fancy, I feel the refreshing chilliness
      of its deeply-shadowed avenues, inhale the fragrance of its
      thousand shrubberies, and thrill anew with undefinable delight,
      at the deep hollow note of the church-bell, breaking, each hour,
      with sullen and sudden roar, upon the stillness of the dusky
      atmosphere in which the fretted Gothic steeple lay imbedded and
      asleep.

It gives me, perhaps, as much of pleasure as I can now in any
      manner experience, to dwell upon minute recollections of the
      school and its concerns. Steeped in misery as I am—misery, alas!
      only too real—I shall be pardoned for seeking relief, however
      slight and temporary, in the weakness of a few rambling details.
      These, moreover, utterly trivial, and even ridiculous in
      themselves, assume, to my fancy, adventitious importance, as
      connected with a period and a locality when and where I recognise
      the first ambiguous monitions of the destiny which afterwards so
      fully overshadowed me. Let me then remember.