The house, I have said, was old and irregular. The grounds were
      extensive, and a high and solid brick wall, topped with a bed of
      mortar and broken glass, encompassed the whole. This prison-like
      rampart formed the limit of our domain; beyond it we saw but
      thrice a week—once every Saturday afternoon, when, attended by
      two ushers, we were permitted to take brief walks in a body
      through some of the neighbouring fields—and twice during Sunday,
      when we were paraded in the same formal manner to the morning and
      evening service in the one church of the village. Of this church
      the principal of our school was pastor. With how deep a spirit of
      wonder and perplexity was I wont to regard him from our remote
      pew in the gallery, as, with step solemn and slow, he ascended
      the pulpit! This reverend man, with countenance so demurely
      benign, with robes so glossy and so clerically flowing, with wig
      so minutely powdered, so rigid and so vast,—-could this be he
      who, of late, with sour visage, and in snuffy habiliments,
      administered, ferule in hand, the Draconian laws of the academy?
      Oh, gigantic paradox, too utterly monstrous for solution!

At an angle of the ponderous wall frowned a more ponderous gate.
      It was riveted and studded with iron bolts, and surmounted with
      jagged iron spikes. What impressions of deep awe did it inspire!
      It was never opened save for the three periodical egressions and
      ingressions already mentioned; then, in every creak of its mighty
      hinges, we found a plenitude of mystery—a world of matter for
      solemn remark, or for more solemn meditation.

The extensive enclosure was irregular in form, having many
      capacious recesses. Of these, three or four of the largest
      constituted the play-ground. It was level, and covered with fine
      hard gravel. I well remember it had no trees, nor benches, nor
      anything similar within it. Of course it was in the rear of the
      house. In front lay a small parterre, planted with box and other
      shrubs, but through this sacred division we passed only upon rare
      occasions indeed—such as a first advent to school or final
      departure thence, or perhaps, when a parent or friend having
      called for us, we joyfully took our way home for the Christmas or
      Midsummer holidays.