But the house!—how quaint an old building was this!—to me how
      veritably a palace of enchantment! There was really no end to its
      windings—to its incomprehensible subdivisions. It was difficult,
      at any given time, to say with certainty upon which of its two
      stories one happened to be. From each room to every other there
      were sure to be found three or four steps either in ascent or
      descent. Then the lateral branches were
      innumerable—inconceivable—and so returning in upon themselves,
      that our most exact ideas in regard to the whole mansion were not
      very far different from those with which we pondered upon
      infinity. During the five years of my residence here, I was never
      able to ascertain with precision, in what remote locality lay the
      little sleeping apartment assigned to myself and some eighteen or
      twenty other scholars.

The school-room was the largest in the house—I could not help
      thinking, in the world. It was very long, narrow, and dismally
      low, with pointed Gothic windows and a ceiling of oak. In a
      remote and terror-inspiring angle was a square enclosure of eight
      or ten feet, comprising the sanctum, “during hours,” of our
      principal, the Reverend Dr. Bransby. It was a solid structure,
      with massy door, sooner than open which in the absence of the
      “Dominie,” we would all have willingly perished by the _peine
      forte et dure_. In other angles were two other similar boxes, far
      less reverenced, indeed, but still greatly matters of awe. One of
      these was the pulpit of the “classical” usher, one of the
      “English and mathematical.” Interspersed about the room, crossing
      and recrossing in endless irregularity, were innumerable benches
      and desks, black, ancient, and time-worn, piled desperately with
      much-bethumbed books, and so beseamed with initial letters, names
      at full length, grotesque figures, and other multiplied efforts
      of the knife, as to have entirely lost what little of original
      form might have been their portion in days long departed. A huge
      bucket with water stood at one extremity of the room, and a clock
      of stupendous dimensions at the other.

Encompassed by the massy walls of this venerable academy, I
      passed, yet not in tedium or disgust, the years of the third
      lustrum of my life. The teeming brain of childhood requires no
      external world of incident to occupy or amuse it; and the
      apparently dismal monotony of a school was replete with more
      intense excitement than my riper youth has derived from luxury,
      or my full manhood from crime. Yet I must believe that my first
      mental development had in it much of the uncommon—even much of
      the _outré_. Upon mankind at large the events of very early
      existence rarely leave in mature age any definite impression. All
      is gray shadow—a weak and irregular remembrance—an indistinct
      regathering of feeble pleasures and phantasmagoric pains. With me
      this is not so. In childhood I must have felt with the energy of
      a man what I now find stamped upon memory in lines as vivid, as
      deep, and as durable as the _exergues_ of the Carthaginian
      medals.