Yet in fact—in the fact of the world’s view—how little was there
      to remember! The morning’s awakening, the nightly summons to bed;
      the connings, the recitations; the periodical half-holidays, and
      perambulations; the play-ground, with its broils, its pastimes,
      its intrigues;—these, by a mental sorcery long forgotten, were
      made to involve a wilderness of sensation, a world of rich
      incident, an universe of varied emotion, of excitement the most
      passionate and spirit-stirring. “_Oh, le bon temps, que ce siècle
      de fer!_”

In truth, the ardor, the enthusiasm, and the imperiousness of my
      disposition, soon rendered me a marked character among my
      schoolmates, and by slow, but natural gradations, gave me an
      ascendancy over all not greatly older than myself;—over all with
      a single exception. This exception was found in the person of a
      scholar, who, although no relation, bore the same Christian and
      surname as myself;—a circumstance, in fact, little remarkable;
      for, notwithstanding a noble descent, mine was one of those
      everyday appellations which seem, by prescriptive right, to have
      been, time out of mind, the common property of the mob. In this
      narrative I have therefore designated myself as William Wilson,—a
      fictitious title not very dissimilar to the real. My namesake
      alone, of those who in school phraseology constituted “our set,”
      presumed to compete with me in the studies of the class—in the
      sports and broils of the play-ground—to refuse implicit belief in
      my assertions, and submission to my will—indeed, to interfere
      with my arbitrary dictation in any respect whatsoever. If there
      is on earth a supreme and unqualified despotism, it is the
      despotism of a master-mind in boyhood over the less energetic
      spirits of its companions.

Wilson’s rebellion was to me a source of the greatest
      embarrassment; the more so as, in spite of the bravado with which
      in public I made a point of treating him and his pretensions, I
      secretly felt that I feared him, and could not help thinking the
      equality which he maintained so easily with myself, a proof of
      his true superiority; since not to be overcome cost me a
      perpetual struggle. Yet this superiority—even this equality—was
      in truth acknowledged by no one but myself; our associates, by
      some unaccountable blindness, seemed not even to suspect it.
      Indeed, his competition, his resistance, and especially his
      impertinent and dogged interference with my purposes, were not
      more pointed than private. He appeared to be destitute alike of
      the ambition which urged, and of the passionate energy of mind
      which enabled me to excel. In his rivalry he might have been
      supposed actuated solely by a whimsical desire to thwart,
      astonish, or mortify myself; although there were times when I
      could not help observing, with a feeling made up of wonder,
      abasement, and pique, that he mingled with his injuries, his
      insults, or his contradictions, a certain most inappropriate, and
      assuredly most unwelcome affectionateness of manner. I could only
      conceive this singular behavior to arise from a consummate
      self-conceit assuming the vulgar airs of patronage and
      protection.