Perhaps it was this latter trait in Wilson’s conduct, conjoined
      with our identity of name, and the mere accident of our having
      entered the school upon the same day, which set afloat the notion
      that we were brothers, among the senior classes in the academy.
      These do not usually inquire with much strictness into the
      affairs of their juniors. I have before said, or should have
      said, that Wilson was not, in the most remote degree, connected
      with my family. But assuredly if we had been brothers we must
      have been twins; for, after leaving Dr. Bransby’s, I casually
      learned that my namesake was born on the nineteenth of January,
      1813—and this is a somewhat remarkable coincidence; for the day
      is precisely that of my own nativity.

It may seem strange that in spite of the continual anxiety
      occasioned me by the rivalry of Wilson, and his intolerable
      spirit of contradiction, I could not bring myself to hate him
      altogether. We had, to be sure, nearly every day a quarrel in
      which, yielding me publicly the palm of victory, he, in some
      manner, contrived to make me feel that it was he who had deserved
      it; yet a sense of pride on my part, and a veritable dignity on
      his own, kept us always upon what are called “speaking terms,”
      while there were many points of strong congeniality in our
      tempers, operating to awake me in a sentiment which our position
      alone, perhaps, prevented from ripening into friendship. It is
      difficult, indeed, to define, or even to describe, my real
      feelings towards him. They formed a motley and heterogeneous
      admixture;—some petulant animosity, which was not yet hatred,
      some esteem, more respect, much fear, with a world of uneasy
      curiosity. To the moralist it will be unnecessary to say, in
      addition, that Wilson and myself were the most inseparable of
      companions.

It was no doubt the anomalous state of affairs existing between
      us, which turned all my attacks upon him, (and they were many,
      either open or covert) into the channel of banter or practical
      joke (giving pain while assuming the aspect of mere fun) rather
      than into a more serious and determined hostility. But my
      endeavours on this head were by no means uniformly successful,
      even when my plans were the most wittily concocted; for my
      namesake had much about him, in character, of that unassuming and
      quiet austerity which, while enjoying the poignancy of its own
      jokes, has no heel of Achilles in itself, and absolutely refuses
      to be laughed at. I could find, indeed, but one vulnerable point,
      and that, lying in a personal peculiarity, arising, perhaps, from
      constitutional disease, would have been spared by any antagonist
      less at his wit’s end than myself;—my rival had a weakness in the
      faucal or guttural organs, which precluded him from raising his
      voice at any time above a very low whisper. Of this defect I did
      not fail to take what poor advantage lay in my power.