Wilson’s retaliations in kind were many; and there was one form
      of his practical wit that disturbed me beyond measure. How his
      sagacity first discovered at all that so petty a thing would vex
      me, is a question I never could solve; but, having discovered, he
      habitually practised the annoyance. I had always felt aversion to
      my uncourtly patronymic, and its very common, if not plebeian
      praenomen. The words were venom in my ears; and when, upon the
      day of my arrival, a second William Wilson came also to the
      academy, I felt angry with him for bearing the name, and doubly
      disgusted with the name because a stranger bore it, who would be
      the cause of its twofold repetition, who would be constantly in
      my presence, and whose concerns, in the ordinary routine of the
      school business, must inevitably, on account of the detestable
      coincidence, be often confounded with my own.

The feeling of vexation thus engendered grew stronger with every
      circumstance tending to show resemblance, moral or physical,
      between my rival and myself. I had not then discovered the
      remarkable fact that we were of the same age; but I saw that we
      were of the same height, and I perceived that we were even
      singularly alike in general contour of person and outline of
      feature. I was galled, too, by the rumor touching a relationship,
      which had grown current in the upper forms. In a word, nothing
      could more seriously disturb me, (although I scrupulously
      concealed such disturbance,) than any allusion to a similarity of
      mind, person, or condition existing between us. But, in truth, I
      had no reason to believe that (with the exception of the matter
      of relationship, and in the case of Wilson himself,) this
      similarity had ever been made a subject of comment, or even
      observed at all by our schoolfellows. That he observed it in all
      its bearings, and as fixedly as I, was apparent; but that he
      could discover in such circumstances so fruitful a field of
      annoyance, can only be attributed, as I said before, to his more
      than ordinary penetration.

His cue, which was to perfect an imitation of myself, lay both in
      words and in actions; and most admirably did he play his part. My
      dress it was an easy matter to copy; my gait and general manner
      were, without difficulty, appropriated; in spite of his
      constitutional defect, even my voice did not escape him. My
      louder tones were, of course, unattempted, but then the key—it
      was identical; _and his singular whisper, it grew the very echo
      of my own_.