How greatly this most exquisite portraiture harassed me, (for it
      could not justly be termed a caricature,) I will not now venture
      to describe. I had but one consolation—in the fact that the
      imitation, apparently, was noticed by myself alone, and that I
      had to endure only the knowing and strangely sarcastic smiles of
      my namesake himself. Satisfied with having produced in my bosom
      the intended effect, he seemed to chuckle in secret over the
      sting he had inflicted, and was characteristically disregardful
      of the public applause which the success of his witty endeavours
      might have so easily elicited. That the school, indeed, did not
      feel his design, perceive its accomplishment, and participate in
      his sneer, was, for many anxious months, a riddle I could not
      resolve. Perhaps the gradation of his copy rendered it not so
      readily perceptible; or, more possibly, I owed my security to the
      master air of the copyist, who, disdaining the letter, (which in
      a painting is all the obtuse can see,) gave but the full spirit
      of his original for my individual contemplation and chagrin.

I have already more than once spoken of the disgusting air of
      patronage which he assumed toward me, and of his frequent
      officious interference with my will. This interference often took
      the ungracious character of advice; advice not openly given, but
      hinted or insinuated. I received it with a repugnance which
      gained strength as I grew in years. Yet, at this distant day, let
      me do him the simple justice to acknowledge that I can recall no
      occasion when the suggestions of my rival were on the side of
      those errors or follies so usual to his immature age and seeming
      inexperience; that his moral sense, at least, if not his general
      talents and worldly wisdom, was far keener than my own; and that
      I might, to-day, have been a better, and thus a happier man, had
      I less frequently rejected the counsels embodied in those meaning
      whispers which I then but too cordially hated and too bitterly
      despised.

As it was, I at length grew restive in the extreme under his
      distasteful supervision, and daily resented more and more openly
      what I considered his intolerable arrogance. I have said that, in
      the first years of our connexion as schoolmates, my feelings in
      regard to him might have been easily ripened into friendship;
      but, in the latter months of my residence at the academy,
      although the intrusion of his ordinary manner had, beyond doubt,
      in some measure, abated, my sentiments, in nearly similar
      proportion, partook very much of positive hatred. Upon one
      occasion he saw this, I think, and afterwards avoided, or made a
      show of avoiding me.