One night, about the close of my fifth year at the school, and
      immediately after the altercation just mentioned, finding every
      one wrapped in sleep, I arose from bed, and, lamp in hand, stole
      through a wilderness of narrow passages from my own bedroom to
      that of my rival. I had long been plotting one of those
      ill-natured pieces of practical wit at his expense in which I had
      hitherto been so uniformly unsuccessful. It was my intention,
      now, to put my scheme in operation, and I resolved to make him
      feel the whole extent of the malice with which I was imbued.
      Having reached his closet, I noiselessly entered, leaving the
      lamp, with a shade over it, on the outside. I advanced a step,
      and listened to the sound of his tranquil breathing. Assured of
      his being asleep, I returned, took the light, and with it again
      approached the bed. Close curtains were around it, which, in the
      prosecution of my plan, I slowly and quietly withdrew, when the
      bright rays fell vividly upon the sleeper, and my eyes, at the
      same moment, upon his countenance. I looked;—and a numbness, an
      iciness of feeling instantly pervaded my frame. My breast heaved,
      my knees tottered, my whole spirit became possessed with an
      objectless yet intolerable horror. Gasping for breath, I lowered
      the lamp in still nearer proximity to the face. Were these—these
      the lineaments of William Wilson? I saw, indeed, that they were
      his, but I shook as if with a fit of the ague in fancying they
      were not. What was there about them to confound me in this
      manner? I gazed;—while my brain reeled with a multitude of
      incoherent thoughts. Not thus he appeared—assuredly not thus—in
      the vivacity of his waking hours. The same name! the same contour
      of person! the same day of arrival at the academy! And then his
      dogged and meaningless imitation of my gait, my voice, my habits,
      and my manner! Was it, in truth, within the bounds of human
      possibility, that what I now saw was the result, merely, of the
      habitual practice of this sarcastic imitation? Awe-stricken, and
      with a creeping shudder, I extinguished the lamp, passed silently
      from the chamber, and left, at once, the halls of that old
      academy, never to enter them again.