After a lapse of some months, spent at home in mere idleness, I
      found myself a student at Eton. The brief interval had been
      sufficient to enfeeble my remembrance of the events at Dr.
      Bransby’s, or at least to effect a material change in the nature
      of the feelings with which I remembered them. The truth—the
      tragedy—of the drama was no more. I could now find room to doubt
      the evidence of my senses; and seldom called up the subject at
      all but with wonder at extent of human credulity, and a smile at
      the vivid force of the imagination which I hereditarily
      possessed. Neither was this species of scepticism likely to be
      diminished by the character of the life I led at Eton. The vortex
      of thoughtless folly into which I there so immediately and so
      recklessly plunged, washed away all but the froth of my past
      hours, engulfed at once every solid or serious impression, and
      left to memory only the veriest levities of a former existence.

I do not wish, however, to trace the course of my miserable
      profligacy here—a profligacy which set at defiance the laws,
      while it eluded the vigilance of the institution. Three years of
      folly, passed without profit, had but given me rooted habits of
      vice, and added, in a somewhat unusual degree, to my bodily
      stature, when, after a week of soulless dissipation, I invited a
      small party of the most dissolute students to a secret carousal
      in my chambers. We met at a late hour of the night; for our
      debaucheries were to be faithfully protracted until morning. The
      wine flowed freely, and there were not wanting other and perhaps
      more dangerous seductions; so that the gray dawn had already
      faintly appeared in the east, while our delirious extravagance
      was at its height. Madly flushed with cards and intoxication, I
      was in the act of insisting upon a toast of more than wonted
      profanity, when my attention was suddenly diverted by the
      violent, although partial unclosing of the door of the apartment,
      and by the eager voice of a servant from without. He said that
      some person, apparently in great haste, demanded to speak with me
      in the hall.