Wildly excited with wine, the unexpected interruption rather
      delighted than surprised me. I staggered forward at once, and a
      few steps brought me to the vestibule of the building. In this
      low and small room there hung no lamp; and now no light at all
      was admitted, save that of the exceedingly feeble dawn which made
      its way through the semi-circular window. As I put my foot over
      the threshold, I became aware of the figure of a youth about my
      own height, and habited in a white kerseymere morning frock, cut
      in the novel fashion of the one I myself wore at the moment. This
      the faint light enabled me to perceive; but the features of his
      face I could not distinguish. Upon my entering he strode
      hurriedly up to me, and, seizing me by the arm with a gesture of
      petulant impatience, whispered the words “William Wilson!” in my
      ear.

I grew perfectly sober in an instant.

There was that in the manner of the stranger, and in the
      tremulous shake of his uplifted finger, as he held it between my
      eyes and the light, which filled me with unqualified amazement;
      but it was not this which had so violently moved me. It was the
      pregnancy of solemn admonition in the singular, low, hissing
      utterance; and, above all, it was the character, the tone, the
      key, of those few, simple, and familiar, yet whispered syllables,
      which came with a thousand thronging memories of bygone days, and
      struck upon my soul with the shock of a galvanic battery. Ere I
      could recover the use of my senses he was gone.

Although this event failed not of a vivid effect upon my
      disordered imagination, yet was it evanescent as vivid. For some
      weeks, indeed, I busied myself in earnest inquiry, or was wrapped
      in a cloud of morbid speculation. I did not pretend to disguise
      from my perception the identity of the singular individual who
      thus perseveringly interfered with my affairs, and harassed me
      with his insinuated counsel. But who and what was this
      Wilson?—and whence came he?—and what were his purposes? Upon
      neither of these points could I be satisfied; merely
      ascertaining, in regard to him, that a sudden accident in his
      family had caused his removal from Dr. Bransby’s academy on the
      afternoon of the day in which I myself had eloped. But in a brief
      period I ceased to think upon the subject; my attention being all
      absorbed in a contemplated departure for Oxford. Thither I soon
      went; the uncalculating vanity of my parents furnishing me with
      an outfit and annual establishment, which would enable me to
      indulge at will in the luxury already so dear to my heart,—to vie
      in profuseness of expenditure with the haughtiest heirs of the
      wealthiest earldoms in Great Britain.