Excited by such appliances to vice, my constitutional temperament
      broke forth with redoubled ardor, and I spurned even the common
      restraints of decency in the mad infatuation of my revels. But it
      were absurd to pause in the detail of my extravagance. Let it
      suffice, that among spendthrifts I out-Heroded Herod, and that,
      giving name to a multitude of novel follies, I added no brief
      appendix to the long catalogue of vices then usual in the most
      dissolute university of Europe.

It could hardly be credited, however, that I had, even here, so
      utterly fallen from the gentlemanly estate, as to seek
      acquaintance with the vilest arts of the gambler by profession,
      and, having become an adept in his despicable science, to
      practise it habitually as a means of increasing my already
      enormous income at the expense of the weak-minded among my
      fellow-collegians. Such, nevertheless, was the fact. And the very
      enormity of this offence against all manly and honourable
      sentiment proved, beyond doubt, the main if not the sole reason
      of the impunity with which it was committed. Who, indeed, among
      my most abandoned associates, would not rather have disputed the
      clearest evidence of his senses, than have suspected of such
      courses, the gay, the frank, the generous William Wilson—the
      noblest and most liberal commoner at Oxford—him whose follies
      (said his parasites) were but the follies of youth and unbridled
      fancy—whose errors but inimitable whim—whose darkest vice but a
      careless and dashing extravagance?

I had been now two years successfully busied in this way, when
      there came to the university a young parvenu nobleman,
      Glendinning—rich, said report, as Herodes Atticus—his riches,
      too, as easily acquired. I soon found him of weak intellect, and,
      of course, marked him as a fitting subject for my skill. I
      frequently engaged him in play, and contrived, with the gambler’s
      usual art, to let him win considerable sums, the more effectually
      to entangle him in my snares. At length, my schemes being ripe, I
      met him (with the full intention that this meeting should be
      final and decisive) at the chambers of a fellow-commoner, (Mr.
      Preston,) equally intimate with both, but who, to do him justice,
      entertained not even a remote suspicion of my design. To give to
      this a better coloring, I had contrived to have assembled a party
      of some eight or ten, and was solicitously careful that the
      introduction of cards should appear accidental, and originate in
      the proposal of my contemplated dupe himself. To be brief upon a
      vile topic, none of the low finesse was omitted, so customary
      upon similar occasions that it is a just matter for wonder how
      any are still found so besotted as to fall its victim.