We had protracted our sitting far into the night, and I had at
      length effected the manoeuvre of getting Glendinning as my sole
      antagonist. The game, too, was my favorite _écarté!_ The rest of
      the company, interested in the extent of our play, had abandoned
      their own cards, and were standing around us as spectators. The
      _parvenu_, who had been induced by my artifices in the early part
      of the evening, to drink deeply, now shuffled, dealt, or played,
      with a wild nervousness of manner for which his intoxication, I
      thought, might partially, but could not altogether account. In a
      very short period he had become my debtor to a large amount,
      when, having taken a long draught of port, he did precisely what
      I had been coolly anticipating—he proposed to double our already
      extravagant stakes. With a well-feigned show of reluctance, and
      not until after my repeated refusal had seduced him into some
      angry words which gave a color of pique to my compliance, did I
      finally comply. The result, of course, did but prove how entirely
      the prey was in my toils: in less than an hour he had quadrupled
      his debt. For some time his countenance had been losing the
      florid tinge lent it by the wine; but now, to my astonishment, I
      perceived that it had grown to a pallor truly fearful. I say to
      my astonishment. Glendinning had been represented to my eager
      inquiries as immeasurably wealthy; and the sums which he had as
      yet lost, although in themselves vast, could not, I supposed,
      very seriously annoy, much less so violently affect him. That he
      was overcome by the wine just swallowed, was the idea which most
      readily presented itself; and, rather with a view to the
      preservation of my own character in the eyes of my associates,
      than from any less interested motive, I was about to insist,
      peremptorily, upon a discontinuance of the play, when some
      expressions at my elbow from among the company, and an
      ejaculation evincing utter despair on the part of Glendinning,
      gave me to understand that I had effected his total ruin under
      circumstances which, rendering him an object for the pity of all,
      should have protected him from the ill offices even of a fiend.