What now might have been my conduct it is difficult to say. The
      pitiable condition of my dupe had thrown an air of embarrassed
      gloom over all; and, for some moments, a profound silence was
      maintained, during which I could not help feeling my cheeks
      tingle with the many burning glances of scorn or reproach cast
      upon me by the less abandoned of the party. I will even own that
      an intolerable weight of anxiety was for a brief instant lifted
      from my bosom by the sudden and extraordinary interruption which
      ensued. The wide, heavy folding doors of the apartment were all
      at once thrown open, to their full extent, with a vigorous and
      rushing impetuosity that extinguished, as if by magic, every
      candle in the room. Their light, in dying, enabled us just to
      perceive that a stranger had entered, about my own height, and
      closely muffled in a cloak. The darkness, however, was now total;
      and we could only feel that he was standing in our midst. Before
      any one of us could recover from the extreme astonishment into
      which this rudeness had thrown all, we heard the voice of the
      intruder.

“Gentlemen,” he said, in a low, distinct, and
      never-to-be-forgotten whisper which thrilled to the very marrow
      of my bones, “Gentlemen, I make no apology for this behaviour,
      because in thus behaving, I am but fulfilling a duty. You are,
      beyond doubt, uninformed of the true character of the person who
      has to-night won at _écarté_ a large sum of money from Lord
      Glendinning. I will therefore put you upon an expeditious and
      decisive plan of obtaining this very necessary information.
      Please to examine, at your leisure, the inner linings of the cuff
      of his left sleeve, and the several little packages which may be
      found in the somewhat capacious pockets of his embroidered
      morning wrapper.”

While he spoke, so profound was the stillness that one might have
      heard a pin drop upon the floor. In ceasing, he departed at once,
      and as abruptly as he had entered. Can I—shall I describe my
      sensations? Must I say that I felt all the horrors of the damned?
      Most assuredly I had little time given for reflection. Many hands
      roughly seized me upon the spot, and lights were immediately
      reprocured. A search ensued. In the lining of my sleeve were
      found all the court cards essential in _écarté_, and, in the
      pockets of my wrapper, a number of packs, facsimiles of those
      used at our sittings, with the single exception that mine were of
      the species called, technically, arrondees; the honours being
      slightly convex at the ends, the lower cards slightly convex at
      the sides. In this disposition, the dupe who cuts, as customary,
      at the length of the pack, will invariably find that he cuts his
      antagonist an honor; while the gambler, cutting at the breadth,
      will, as certainly, cut nothing for his victim which may count in
      the records of the game.