Any burst of indignation upon this discovery would have affected
      me less than the silent contempt, or the sarcastic composure,
      with which it was received.

“Mr. Wilson,” said our host, stooping to remove from beneath his
      feet an exceedingly luxurious cloak of rare furs, “Mr. Wilson,
      this is your property.” (The weather was cold; and, upon quitting
      my own room, I had thrown a cloak over my dressing wrapper,
      putting it off upon reaching the scene of play.) “I presume it is
      supererogatory to seek here (eyeing the folds of the garment with
      a bitter smile) for any farther evidence of your skill. Indeed,
      we have had enough. You will see the necessity, I hope, of
      quitting Oxford—at all events, of quitting instantly my
      chambers.”

Abased, humbled to the dust as I then was, it is probable that I
      should have resented this galling language by immediate personal
      worn was of a rare description of fur; how rare, how
      extravagantly costly, I shall not venture to say. Its fashion,
      too, was of my own fantastic invention; for I was fastidious to
      an absurd degree of coxcombry, in matters of this frivolous
      nature. When, therefore, Mr. Preston reached me that which he had
      picked up upon the floor, and near the folding doors of the
      apartment, it was with an astonishment nearly bordering upon
      terror, that I perceived my own already hanging on my arm, (where
      I had no doubt unwittingly placed it,) and that the one presented
      me was but its exact counterpart in every, in even the minutest
      possible particular. The singular being who had so disastrously
      exposed me, had been muffled, I remembered, in a cloak; and none
      had been worn at all by any of the members of our party with the
      exception of myself. Retaining some presence of mind, I took the
      one offered me by Preston; placed it, unnoticed, over my own;
      left the apartment with a resolute scowl of defiance; and, next
      morning ere dawn of day, commenced a hurried journey from Oxford
      to the continent, in a perfect agony of horror and of shame.

I fled in vain. My evil destiny pursued me as if in exultation,
      and proved, indeed, that the exercise of its mysterious dominion
      had as yet only begun. Scarcely had I set foot in Paris ere I had
      fresh evidence of the detestable interest taken by this Wilson in
      my concerns. Years flew, while I experienced no relief.
      Villain!—at Rome, with how untimely, yet with how spectral an
      officiousness, stepped he in between me and my ambition! At
      Vienna, too—at Berlin—and at Moscow! Where, in truth, had I not
      bitter cause to curse him within my heart? From his inscrutable
      tyranny did I at length flee, panic-stricken, as from a
      pestilence; and to the very ends of the earth I fled in vain.