And again, and again, in secret communion with my own spirit,
      would I demand the questions “Who is he?—whence came he?—and what
      are his objects?” But no answer was there found. And then I
      scrutinized, with a minute scrutiny, the forms, and the methods,
      and the leading traits of his impertinent supervision. But even
      here there was very little upon which to base a conjecture. It
      was noticeable, indeed, that, in no one of the multiplied
      instances in which he had of late crossed my path, had he so
      crossed it except to frustrate those schemes, or to disturb those
      actions, which, if fully carried out, might have resulted in
      bitter mischief. Poor justification this, in truth, for an
      authority so imperiously assumed! Poor indemnity for natural
      rights of self-agency so pertinaciously, so insultingly denied!

I had also been forced to notice that my tormentor, for a very
      long period of time, (while scrupulously and with miraculous
      dexterity maintaining his whim of an identity of apparel with
      myself,) had so contrived it, in the execution of his varied
      interference with my will, that I saw not, at any moment, the
      features of his face. Be Wilson what he might, this, at least,
      was but the veriest of affectation, or of folly. Could he, for an
      instant, have supposed that, in my admonisher at Eton—in the
      destroyer of my honor at Oxford,—in him who thwarted my ambition
      at Rome, my revenge at Paris, my passionate love at Naples, or
      what he falsely termed my avarice in Egypt,—that in this, my
      arch-enemy and evil genius, could fail to recognise the William
      Wilson of my school boy days,—the namesake, the companion, the
      rival,—the hated and dreaded rival at Dr. Bransby’s?
      Impossible!—But let me hasten to the last eventful scene of the
      drama.

Thus far I had succumbed supinely to this imperious domination.
      The sentiment of deep awe with which I habitually regarded the
      elevated character, the majestic wisdom, the apparent
      omnipresence and omnipotence of Wilson, added to a feeling of
      even terror, with which certain other traits in his nature and
      assumptions inspired me, had operated, hitherto, to impress me
      with an idea of my own utter weakness and helplessness, and to
      suggest an implicit, although bitterly reluctant submission to
      his arbitrary will. But, of late days, I had given myself up
      entirely to wine; and its maddening influence upon my hereditary
      temper rendered me more and more impatient of control. I began to
      murmur,—to hesitate,—to resist. And was it only fancy which
      induced me to believe that, with the increase of my own firmness,
      that of my tormentor underwent a proportional diminution? Be this
      as it may, I now began to feel the inspiration of a burning hope,
      and at length nurtured in my secret thoughts a stern and
      desperate resolution that I would submit no longer to be
      enslaved.