It was at Rome, during the Carnival of 18—, that I attended a
      masquerade in the palazzo of the Neapolitan Duke Di Broglio. I
      had indulged more freely than usual in the excesses of the
      wine-table; and now the suffocating atmosphere of the crowded
      rooms irritated me beyond endurance. The difficulty, too, of
      forcing my way through the mazes of the company contributed not a
      little to the ruffling of my temper; for I was anxiously seeking,
      (let me not say with what unworthy motive) the young, the gay,
      the beautiful wife of the aged and doting Di Broglio. With a too
      unscrupulous confidence she had previously communicated to me the
      secret of the costume in which she would be habited, and now,
      having caught a glimpse of her person, I was hurrying to make my
      way into her presence. At this moment I felt a light hand placed
      upon my shoulder, and that ever-remembered, low, damnable
      _whisper_ within my ear.

In an absolute phrenzy of wrath, I turned at once upon him who
      had thus interrupted me, and seized him violently by the collar.
      He was attired, as I had expected, in a costume altogether
      similar to my own; wearing a Spanish cloak of blue velvet, begirt
      about the waist with a crimson belt sustaining a rapier. A mask
      of black silk entirely covered his face.

“Scoundrel!” I said, in a voice husky with rage, while every
      syllable I uttered seemed as new fuel to my fury, “scoundrel!
      impostor! accursed villain! you shall not—you shall not dog me
      unto death! Follow me, or I stab you where you stand!”—and I
      broke my way from the ball-room into a small ante-chamber
      adjoining, dragging him unresistingly with me as I went.

Upon entering, I thrust him furiously from me. He staggered
      against the wall, while I closed the door with an oath, and
      commanded him to draw. He hesitated but for an instant; then,
      with a slight sigh, drew in silence, and put himself upon his
      defence.

The contest was brief indeed. I was frantic with every species of
      wild excitement, and felt within my single arm the energy and
      power of a multitude. In a few seconds I forced him by sheer
      strength against the wainscoting, and thus, getting him at mercy,
      plunged my sword, with brute ferocity, repeatedly through and
      through his bosom.