At that instant some person tried the latch of the door. I
      hastened to prevent an intrusion, and then immediately returned
      to my dying antagonist. But what human language can adequately
      portray that astonishment, that horror which possessed me at the
      spectacle then presented to view? The brief moment in which I
      averted my eyes had been sufficient to produce, apparently, a
      material change in the arrangements at the upper or farther end
      of the room. A large mirror,—so at first it seemed to me in my
      confusion—now stood where none had been perceptible before; and,
      as I stepped up to it in extremity of terror, mine own image, but
      with features all pale and dabbled in blood, advanced to meet me
      with a feeble and tottering gait.

Thus it appeared, I say, but was not. It was my antagonist—it was
      Wilson, who then stood before me in the agonies of his
      dissolution. His mask and cloak lay, where he had thrown them,
      upon the floor. Not a thread in all his raiment—not a line in all
      the marked and singular lineaments of his face which was not,
      even in the most absolute identity, mine own!

It was Wilson; but he spoke no longer in a whisper, and I could
      have fancied that I myself was speaking while he said:

_“You have conquered, and I yield. Yet, henceforward art thou
      also dead—dead to the World, to Heaven and to Hope! In me didst
      thou exist—and, in my death, see by this image, which is thine
      own, how utterly thou hast murdered thyself.”_

THE TELL-TALE HEART.

True!—nervous—very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am;
      but why will you say that I am mad? The disease had sharpened my
      senses—not destroyed—not dulled them. Above all was the sense of
      hearing acute. I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.
      I heard many things in hell. How, then, am I mad? Hearken! and
      observe how healthily—how calmly I can tell you the whole story.

It is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain; but
      once conceived, it haunted me day and night. Object there was
      none. Passion there was none. I loved the old man. He had never
      wronged me. He had never given me insult. For his gold I had no
      desire. I think it was his eye! yes, it was this! He had the eye
      of a vulture—a pale blue eye, with a film over it. Whenever it
      fell upon me, my blood ran cold; and so by degrees—very
      gradually—I made up my mind to take the life of the old man, and
      thus rid myself of the eye forever.