Misery is manifold. The wretchedness of earth is multiform.
      Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow, its hues are as
      various as the hues of that arch—as distinct too, yet as
      intimately blended. Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow!
      How is it that from beauty I have derived a type of
      unloveliness?—from the covenant of peace, a simile of sorrow? But
      as, in ethics, evil is a consequence of good, so, in fact, out of
      joy is sorrow born. Either the memory of past bliss is the
      anguish of to-day, or the agonies which _are_, have their origin
      in the ecstasies which _might have been_.

My baptismal name is Egaeus; that of my family I will not
      mention. Yet there are no towers in the land more time-honored
      than my gloomy, gray, hereditary halls. Our line has been called
      a race of visionaries; and in many striking particulars—in the
      character of the family mansion—in the frescos of the chief
      saloon—in the tapestries of the dormitories—in the chiselling of
      some buttresses in the armory—but more especially in the gallery
      of antique paintings—in the fashion of the library chamber—and,
      lastly, in the very peculiar nature of the library’s
      contents—there is more than sufficient evidence to warrant the
      belief.

The recollections of my earliest years are connected with that
      chamber, and with its volumes—of which latter I will say no more.
      Here died my mother. Herein was I born. But it is mere idleness
      to say that I had not lived before—that the soul has no previous
      existence. You deny it?—let us not argue the matter. Convinced
      myself, I seek not to convince. There is, however, a remembrance
      of aerial forms—of spiritual and meaning eyes—of sounds, musical
      yet sad—a remembrance which will not be excluded; a memory like a
      shadow—vague, variable, indefinite, unsteady; and like a shadow,
      too, in the impossibility of my getting rid of it while the
      sunlight of my reason shall exist.

In that chamber was I born. Thus awaking from the long night of
      what seemed, but was not, nonentity, at once into the very
      regions of fairy land—into a palace of imagination—into the wild
      dominions of monastic thought and erudition—it is not singular
      that I gazed around me with a startled and ardent eye—that I
      loitered away my boyhood in books, and dissipated my youth in
      reverie; but it _is_ singular that as years rolled away, and the
      noon of manhood found me still in the mansion of my fathers—it
      _is_ wonderful what stagnation there fell upon the springs of my
      life—wonderful how total an inversion took place in the character
      of my commonest thought. The realities of the world affected me
      as visions, and as visions only, while the wild ideas of the land
      of dreams became, in turn, not the material of my every-day
      existence, but in very deed that existence utterly and solely in
      itself.