Berenice and I were cousins, and we grew up together in my
      paternal halls. Yet differently we grew—I, ill of health, and
      buried in gloom—she, agile, graceful, and overflowing with
      energy; hers, the ramble on the hill-side—mine the studies of the
      cloister; I, living within my own heart, and addicted, body and
      soul, to the most intense and painful meditation—she, roaming
      carelessly through life, with no thought of the shadows in her
      path, or the silent flight of the raven-winged hours. Berenice!—I
      call upon her name—Berenice!—and from the gray ruins of memory a
      thousand tumultuous recollections are startled at the sound! Ah,
      vividly is her image before me now, as in the early days of her
      light-heartedness and joy! Oh, gorgeous yet fantastic beauty! Oh,
      sylph amid the shrubberies of Arnheim! Oh, Naiad among its
      fountains! And then—then all is mystery and terror, and a tale
      which should not be told. Disease—a fatal disease, fell like the
      simoon upon her frame; and, even while I gazed upon her, the
      spirit of change swept over her, pervading her mind, her habits,
      and her character, and, in a manner the most subtle and terrible,
      disturbing even the identity of her person! Alas! the destroyer
      came and went!—and the victim—where is she? I knew her not—or
      knew her no longer as Berenice.

Among the numerous train of maladies superinduced by that fatal
      and primary one which effected a revolution of so horrible a kind
      in the moral and physical being of my cousin, may be mentioned as
      the most distressing and obstinate in its nature, a species of
      epilepsy not unfrequently terminating in _trance_ itself—trance
      very nearly resembling positive dissolution, and from which her
      manner of recovery was in most instances, startlingly abrupt. In
      the mean time my own disease—for I have been told that I should
      call it by no other appellation—my own disease, then, grew
      rapidly upon me, and assumed finally a monomaniac character of a
      novel and extraordinary form—hourly and momently gaining
      vigor—and at length obtaining over me the most incomprehensible
      ascendancy. This monomania, if I must so term it, consisted in a
      morbid irritability of those properties of the mind in
      metaphysical science termed the _attentive_. It is more than
      probable that I am not understood; but I fear, indeed, that it is
      in no manner possible to convey to the mind of the merely general
      reader, an adequate idea of that nervous _intensity of interest_
      with which, in my case, the powers of meditation (not to speak
      technically) busied and buried themselves, in the contemplation
      of even the most ordinary objects of the universe.