To muse for long unwearied hours, with my attention riveted to
      some frivolous device on the margin, or in the typography of a
      book; to become absorbed, for the better part of a summer’s day,
      in a quaint shadow falling aslant upon the tapestry or upon the
      floor; to lose myself, for an entire night, in watching the
      steady flame of a lamp, or the embers of a fire; to dream away
      whole days over the perfume of a flower; to repeat, monotonously,
      some common word, until the sound, by dint of frequent
      repetition, ceased to convey any idea whatever to the mind; to
      lose all sense of motion or physical existence, by means of
      absolute bodily quiescence long and obstinately persevered in:
      such were a few of the most common and least pernicious vagaries
      induced by a condition of the mental faculties, not, indeed,
      altogether unparalleled, but certainly bidding defiance to
      anything like analysis or explanation.

Yet let me not be misapprehended. The undue, earnest, and morbid
      attention thus excited by objects in their own nature frivolous,
      must not be confounded in character with that ruminating
      first supposed, an extreme condition, or exaggeration of such
      propensity, but primarily and essentially distinct and different.
      of this object in a wilderness of deductions and suggestions
      issuing therefrom, until, at the conclusion of a day-dream _often
      replete with luxury_, he finds the _incitamentum_, or first cause
      of his musings, entirely vanished and forgotten. In my case, the
      primary object was _invariably frivolous_, although assuming,
      through the medium of my distempered vision, a refracted and
      unreal importance. Few deductions, if any, were made; and those
      few pertinaciously returning in upon the original object as a
      centre. The meditations were _never_ pleasurable; and, at the
      termination of the reverie, the first cause, so far from being
      out of sight, had attained that supernaturally exaggerated
      interest which was the prevailing feature of the disease. In a
      word, the powers of mind more particularly exercised were, with
      me, as I have said before, the _attentive_, and are, with the
      day-dreamer, the _speculative_.

My books, at this epoch, if they did not actually serve to
      irritate the disorder, partook, it will be perceived, largely, in
      their imaginative and inconsequential nature, of the
      characteristic qualities of the disorder itself. I well remember,
      among others, the treatise of the noble Italian, Coelius Secundus
      Curio, “_De Amplitudine Beati Regni Dei;_” St. Austin’s great
      work, the “City of God;” and Tertullian’s “_De Carne Christi_,”
      in which the paradoxical sentence “_Mortuus est Dei filius;
      credible est quia ineptum est: et sepultus resurrexit; certum est
      quia impossibile est,_” occupied my undivided time, for many
      weeks of laborious and fruitless investigation.