Thus it will appear that, shaken from its balance only by trivial
      human violence, and the fiercer fury of the waters and the winds,
      trembled only to the touch of the flower called Asphodel. And
      although, to a careless thinker, it might appear a matter beyond
      doubt, that the alteration produced by her unhappy malady, in the
      _moral_ condition of Berenice, would afford me many objects for
      the exercise of that intense and abnormal meditation whose nature
      I have been at some trouble in explaining, yet such was not in
      any degree the case. In the lucid intervals of my infirmity, her
      calamity, indeed, gave me pain, and, taking deeply to heart that
      total wreck of her fair and gentle life, I did not fail to
      ponder, frequently and bitterly, upon the wonder-working means by
      which so strange a revolution had been so suddenly brought to
      pass. But these reflections partook not of the idiosyncrasy of my
      disease, and were such as would have occurred, under similar
      circumstances, to the ordinary mass of mankind. True to its own
      character, my disorder revelled in the less important but more
      startling changes wrought in the _physical_ frame of Berenice—in
      the singular and most appalling distortion of her personal
      identity.

During the brightest days of her unparalleled beauty, most surely
      I had never loved her. In the strange anomaly of my existence,
      feelings with me, _had never been_ of the heart, and my passions
      _always were_ of the mind. Through the gray of the early
      morning—among the trellised shadows of the forest at noonday—and
      in the silence of my library at night—she had flitted by my eyes,
      and I had seen her—not as the living and breathing Berenice, but
      as the Berenice of a dream; not as a being of the earth, earthy,
      but as the abstraction of such a being; not as a thing to admire,
      but to analyze; not as an object of love, but as the theme of the
      most abstruse although desultory speculation. And _now_—now I
      shuddered in her presence, and grew pale at her approach; yet,
      bitterly lamenting her fallen and desolate condition, I called to
      mind that she had loved me long, and, in an evil moment, I spoke
      to her of marriage.

And at length the period of our nuptials was approaching, when,
      upon an afternoon in the winter of the year—one of those
      unseasonably warm, calm, and misty days which are the nurse of
      the beautiful Halcyon (*1),—I sat, (and sat, as I thought,
      alone,) in the inner apartment of the library. But, uplifting my
      eyes, I saw that Berenice stood before me.