The shutting of a door disturbed me, and, looking up, I found
      that my cousin had departed from the chamber. But from the
      disordered chamber of my brain, had not, alas! departed, and
      would not be driven away, the white and ghastly _spectrum_ of the
      teeth. Not a speck on their surface—not a shade on their
      enamel—not an indenture in their edges—but what that period of
      her smile had sufficed to brand in upon my memory. I saw them
      _now_ even more unequivocally than I beheld them _then_. The
      teeth!—the teeth!—they were here, and there, and everywhere, and
      visibly and palpably before me; long, narrow, and excessively
      white, with the pale lips writhing about them, as in the very
      moment of their first terrible development. Then came the full
      fury of my _monomania_, and I struggled in vain against its
      strange and irresistible influence. In the multiplied objects of
      the external world I had no thoughts but for the teeth. For these
      I longed with a phrenzied desire. All other matters and all
      different interests became absorbed in their single
      contemplation. They—they alone were present to the mental eye,
      and they, in their sole individuality, became the essence of my
      mental life. I held them in every light. I turned them in every
      attitude. I surveyed their characteristics. I dwelt upon their
      peculiarities. I pondered upon their conformation. I mused upon
      the alteration in their nature. I shuddered as I assigned to them
      in imagination a sensitive and sentient power, and even when
      unassisted by the lips, a capability of moral expression. Of
      Mademoiselle Salle it has been well said, “_Que tous ses pas
      etaient des sentiments_,” and of Berenice I more seriously
      believed _que toutes ses dents etaient des idées_. _Des
      idées!_—ah here was the idiotic thought that destroyed me! _Des
      idées!_—ah, _therefore_ it was that I coveted them so madly! I
      felt that their possession could alone ever restore me to peace,
      in giving me back to reason.

And the evening closed in upon me thus—and then the darkness
      came, and tarried, and went—and the day again dawned—and the
      mists of a second night were now gathering around—and still I sat
      motionless in that solitary room—and still I sat buried in
      meditation—and still the _phantasma_ of the teeth maintained its
      terrible ascendancy, as, with the most vivid hideous
      distinctness, it floated about amid the changing lights and
      shadows of the chamber. At length there broke in upon my dreams a
      cry as of horror and dismay; and thereunto, after a pause,
      succeeded the sound of troubled voices, intermingled with many
      low moanings of sorrow or of pain. I arose from my seat, and
      throwing open one of the doors of the library, saw standing out
      in the ante-chamber a servant maiden, all in tears, who told me
      that Berenice was—no more! She had been seized with epilepsy in
      the early morning, and now, at the closing in of the night, the
      grave was ready for its tenant, and all the preparations for the
      burial were completed.