I found myself sitting in the library, and again sitting there
      alone. It seemed that I had newly awakened from a confused and
      exciting dream. I knew that it was now midnight, and I was well
      aware, that since the setting of the sun, Berenice had been
      interred. But of that dreary period which intervened I had no
      positive, at least no definite comprehension. Yet its memory was
      replete with horror—horror more horrible from being vague, and
      terror more terrible from ambiguity. It was a fearful page in the
      record my existence, written all over with dim, and hideous, and
      unintelligible recollections. I strived to decypher them, but in
      vain; while ever and anon, like the spirit of a departed sound,
      the shrill and piercing shriek of a female voice seemed to be
      ringing in my ears. I had done a deed—what was it? I asked myself
      the question aloud, and the whispering echoes of the chamber
      answered me,—“_What was it?_”

On the table beside me burned a lamp, and near it lay a little
      box. It was of no remarkable character, and I had seen it
      frequently before, for it was the property of the family
      physician; but how came it _there_, upon my table, and why did I
      shudder in regarding it? These things were in no manner to be
      accounted for, and my eyes at length dropped to the open pages of
      a book, and to a sentence underscored therein. The words were the
      singular but simple ones of the poet Ebn Zaiat:—“_Dicebant mihi
      sodales si sepulchrum amicae visitarem, curas meas aliquantulum
      fore levatas_.” Why then, as I perused them, did the hairs of my
      head erect themselves on end, and the blood of my body become
      congealed within my veins?

There came a light tap at the library door—and, pale as the
      tenant of a tomb, a menial entered upon tiptoe. His looks were
      wild with terror, and he spoke to me in a voice tremulous, husky,
      and very low. What said he?—some broken sentences I heard. He
      told of a wild cry disturbing the silence of the night—of the
      gathering together of the household—of a search in the direction
      of the sound; and then his tones grew thrillingly distinct as he
      whispered me of a violated grave—of a disfigured body enshrouded,
      yet still breathing—still palpitating—_still alive_!