He pointed to garments;—they were muddy and clotted with gore. I
      spoke not, and he took me gently by the hand: it was indented
      with the impress of human nails. He directed my attention to some
      object against the wall. I looked at it for some minutes: it was
      a spade. With a shriek I bounded to the table, and grasped the
      box that lay upon it. But I could not force it open; and in my
      tremor, it slipped from my hands, and fell heavily, and burst
      into pieces; and from it, with a rattling sound, there rolled out
      some instruments of dental surgery, intermingled with thirty-two
      small, white and ivory-looking substances that were scattered to
      and fro about the floor.

ELEONORA

Sub conservatione formæ specificæ salva anima.
                    —_Raymond Lully_.

I am come of a race noted for vigor of fancy and ardor of
      passion. Men have called me mad; but the question is not yet
      settled, whether madness is or is not the loftiest
      intelligence—whether much that is glorious—whether all that is
      profound—does not spring from disease of thought—from moods of
      mind exalted at the expense of the general intellect. They who
      dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who
      dream only by night. In their gray visions they obtain glimpses
      of eternity, and thrill, in awakening, to find that they have
      been upon the verge of the great secret. In snatches, they learn
      something of the wisdom which is of good, and more of the mere
      knowledge which is of evil. They penetrate, however, rudderless
      or compassless into the vast ocean of the “light ineffable,” and
      again, like the adventures of the Nubian geographer, “agressi
      sunt mare tenebrarum, quid in eo esset exploraturi.”

We will say, then, that I am mad. I grant, at least, that there
      are two distinct conditions of my mental existence—the condition
      of a lucid reason, not to be disputed, and belonging to the
      memory of events forming the first epoch of my life—and a
      condition of shadow and doubt, appertaining to the present, and
      to the recollection of what constitutes the second great era of
      my being. Therefore, what I shall tell of the earlier period,
      believe; and to what I may relate of the later time, give only
      such credit as may seem due, or doubt it altogether, or, if doubt
      it ye cannot, then play unto its riddle the Oedipus.