I found myself within a strange city, where all things might have
      served to blot from recollection the sweet dreams I had dreamed
      so long in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass. The pomps and
      pageantries of a stately court, and the mad clangor of arms, and
      the radiant loveliness of women, bewildered and intoxicated my
      brain. But as yet my soul had proved true to its vows, and the
      indications of the presence of Eleonora were still given me in
      the silent hours of the night. Suddenly these manifestations they
      ceased, and the world grew dark before mine eyes, and I stood
      aghast at the burning thoughts which possessed, at the terrible
      temptations which beset me; for there came from some far, far
      distant and unknown land, into the gay court of the king I
      served, a maiden to whose beauty my whole recreant heart yielded
      at once—at whose footstool I bowed down without a struggle, in
      the most ardent, in the most abject worship of love. What,
      indeed, was my passion for the young girl of the valley in
      comparison with the fervor, and the delirium, and the
      spirit-lifting ecstasy of adoration with which I poured out my
      whole soul in tears at the feet of the ethereal Ermengarde?—Oh,
      bright was the seraph Ermengarde! and in that knowledge I had
      room for none other. Oh, divine was the angel Ermengarde! and as
      I looked down into the depths of her memorial eyes, I thought
      only of them—and of her.

I wedded—nor dreaded the curse I had invoked; and its bitterness
      was not visited upon me. And once—but once again in the silence
      of the night; there came through my lattice the soft sighs which
      had forsaken me; and they modelled themselves into familiar and
      sweet voice, saying:

“Sleep in peace! for the Spirit of Love reigneth and ruleth, and,
      in taking to thy passionate heart her who is Ermengarde, thou art
      absolved, for reasons which shall be made known to thee in
      Heaven, of thy vows unto Eleonora.”

NOTES TO THE SECOND VOLUME

Notes — Scheherazade

(*1) The coralites.

(*2) “One of the most remarkable natural curiosities in Texas is
      a petrified forest, near the head of Pasigno river. It consists
      of several hundred trees, in an erect position, all turned to
      stone. Some trees, now growing, are partly petrified. This is a
      startling fact for natural philosophers, and must cause them to
      modify the existing theory of petrification.—_Kennedy_.

waters of the Cheyenne, or Chienne river, which has its source in
      the Black Hills of the rocky chain.