There is scarcely, perhaps, a spectacle on the surface of the
      globe more remarkable, either in a geological or picturesque
      point of view than that presented by the petrified forest, near
      Cairo. The traveller, having passed the tombs of the caliphs,
      just beyond the gates of the city, proceeds to the southward,
      nearly at right angles to the road across the desert to Suez, and
      after having travelled some ten miles up a low barren valley,
      covered with sand, gravel, and sea shells, fresh as if the tide
      had retired but yesterday, crosses a low range of sandhills,
      which has for some distance run parallel to his path. The scene
      now presented to him is beyond conception singular and desolate.
      A mass of fragments of trees, all converted into stone, and when
      struck by his horse’s hoof ringing like cast iron, is seen to
      extend itself for miles and miles around him, in the form of a
      decayed and prostrate forest. The wood is of a dark brown hue,
      but retains its form in perfection, the pieces being from one to
      fifteen feet in length, and from half a foot to three feet in
      thickness, strewed so closely together, as far as the eye can
      reach, that an Egyptian donkey can scarcely thread its way
      through amongst them, and so natural that, were it in Scotland or
      Ireland, it might pass without remark for some enormous drained
      bog, on which the exhumed trees lay rotting in the sun. The roots
      and rudiments of the branches are, in many cases, nearly perfect,
      and in some the worm-holes eaten under the bark are readily
      recognizable. The most delicate of the sap vessels, and all the
      finer portions of the centre of the wood, are perfectly entire,
      and bear to be examined with the strongest magnifiers. The whole
      are so thoroughly silicified as to scratch glass and are capable
      of receiving the highest polish.— _Asiatic Magazine_.

(*3) The Mammoth Cave of Kentucky.

(*4) In Iceland, 1783.

(*5) “During the eruption of Hecla, in 1766, clouds of this kind
      produced such a degree of darkness that, at Glaumba, which is
      more than fifty leagues from the mountain, people could only find
      their way by groping. During the eruption of Vesuvius, in 1794,
      at Caserta, four leagues distant, people could only walk by the
      light of torches. On the first of May, 1812, a cloud of volcanic
      ashes and sand, coming from a volcano in the island of St.
      Vincent, covered the whole of Barbadoes, spreading over it so
      intense a darkness that, at mid-day, in the open air, one could
      not perceive the trees or other objects near him, or even a white
      handkerchief placed at the distance of six inches from the
      eye._“—Murray, p. 215, Phil. edit._