(*15) The corolla of this flower (_Aristolochia Clematitis_),
      which is tubular, but terminating upwards in a ligulate limb, is
      inflated into a globular figure at the base. The tubular part is
      internally beset with stiff hairs, pointing downwards. The
      globular part contains the pistil, which consists merely of a
      germen and stigma, together with the surrounding stamens. But the
      stamens, being shorter than the germen, cannot discharge the
      pollen so as to throw it upon the stigma, as the flower stands
      always upright till after impregnation. And hence, without some
      additional and peculiar aid, the pollen must necessarily fan down
      to the bottom of the flower. Now, the aid that nature has
      furnished in this case, is that of the _Tiputa Pennicornis_, a
      small insect, which entering the tube of the corrolla in quest of
      honey, descends to the bottom, and rummages about till it becomes
      quite covered with pollen; but not being able to force its way
      out again, owing to the downward position of the hairs, which
      converge to a point like the wires of a mouse-trap, and being
      somewhat impatient of its confinement it brushes backwards and
      forwards, trying every corner, till, after repeatedly traversing
      the stigma, it covers it with pollen sufficient for its
      impregnation, in consequence of which the flower soon begins to
      droop, and the hairs to shrink to the sides of the tube,
      effecting an easy passage for the escape of the insect.”—_Rev. P.
      Keith-System of Physiological Botany_.

(*16) The bees—ever since bees were—have been constructing their
      cells with just such sides, in just such number, and at just such
      inclinations, as it has been demonstrated (in a problem involving
      the profoundest mathematical principles) are the very sides, in
      the very number, and at the very angles, which will afford the
      creatures the most room that is compatible with the greatest
      stability of structure.

During the latter part of the last century, the question arose
      among mathematicians—“to determine the best form that can be
      given to the sails of a windmill, according to their varying
      distances from the revolving vanes, and likewise from the centres
      of the revolution.” This is an excessively complex problem, for
      it is, in other words, to find the best possible position at an
      infinity of varied distances and at an infinity of points on the
      arm. There were a thousand futile attempts to answer the query on
      the part of the most illustrious mathematicians, and when at
      length, an undeniable solution was discovered, men found that the
      wings of a bird had given it with absolute precision ever since
      the first bird had traversed the air.

(*17) He observed a flock of pigeons passing betwixt Frankfort
      and the Indian territory, one mile at least in breadth; it took
      up four hours in passing, which, at the rate of one mile per
      minute, gives a length of 240 miles; and, supposing three pigeons
      to each square yard, gives 2,230,272,000 Pigeons.—“_Travels in
      Canada and the United States,” by Lieut. F. Hall._