(*34) Although light travels 167,000 miles in a second, the
      distance of 61 Cygni (the only star whose distance is
      ascertained) is so inconceivably great, that its rays would
      require more than ten years to reach the earth. For stars beyond
      this, 20—or even 1000 years—would be a moderate estimate. Thus,
      if they had been annihilated 20, or 1000 years ago, we might
      still see them to-day by the light which started from their
      surfaces 20 or 1000 years in the past time. That many which we
      see daily are really extinct, is not impossible—not even
      improbable.

Notes—Maelstrom

(*1) See Archimedes, “_De Incidentibus in Fluido_.”—lib. 2.

Notes—Island of the Fay

(*1) Moraux is here derived from moeurs, and its meaning is
      “fashionable” or more strictly “of manners.”

(*2) Speaking of the tides, Pomponius Mela, in his treatise “De
      Situ Orbis,” says “either the world is a great animal, or” etc

(*3) Balzac—in substance—I do not remember the words

(*4) Florem putares nare per liquidum aethera.—P. Commire.

Notes — Domain of Arnheim

(*1) An incident, similar in outline to the one here imagined,
      occurred, not very long ago, in England. The name of the
      fortunate heir was Thelluson. I first saw an account of this
      matter in the “Tour” of Prince Puckler Muskau, who makes the sum
      inherited _ninety millions of pounds_, and justly observes that
      “in the contemplation of so vast a sum, and of the services to
      which it might be applied, there is something even of the
      sublime.” To suit the views of this article I have followed the
      Prince’s statement, although a grossly exaggerated one. The germ,
      and in fact, the commencement of the present paper was published
      many years ago—previous to the issue of the first number of Sue’s
      admirable _Juif Errant_, which may possibly have been suggested
      to him by Muskau’s account.

Notes—Berenice

(*1) For as Jove, during the winter season, gives twice seven
      days of warmth, men have called this element and temperate time
      the nurse of the beautiful Halcyon—_Simonides_