But the frog when he had received this promise, put his head into the
water and sank down, and in a short while came swimmming up again with
the ball in his mouth, and threw it on the grass. The King’s daughter
was delighted to see her pretty plaything once more, and picked it up,
and ran away with it. “Wait, wait,” said the frog. “Take me with thee.
I can’t run as thou canst.” But what did it avail him to scream his
croak, croak, after her, as loudly as he could? She did not listen to
it, but ran home and soon forgot the poor frog, who was forced to go
back into his well again.

The next day when she had seated herself at table with the King and all
the courtiers, and was eating from her little golden plate, something
came creeping splish splash, splish splash, up the marble staircase,
and when it had got to the top, it knocked at the door and cried,
“Princess, youngest princess, open the door for me.” She ran to see who
was outside, but when she opened the door, there sat the frog in front
of it. Then she slammed the door to, in great haste, sat down to dinner
again, and was quite frightened. The King saw plainly that her heart
was beating violently, and said, “My child, what art thou so afraid of?
Is there perchance a giant outside who wants to carry thee away?” “Ah,
no,” replied she. “It is no giant but a disgusting frog.”

“What does a frog want with thee?” “Ah, dear father, yesterday as I was
in the forest sitting by the well, playing, my golden ball fell into
the water. And because I cried so, the frog brought it out again for
me, and because he so insisted, I promised him he should be my
companion, but I never thought he would be able to come out of his
water! And now he is outside there, and wants to come in to me.”

In the meantime it knocked a second time, and cried,

“Princess! youngest princess!
Open the door for me!
Dost thou not know what thou saidst to me
Yesterday by the cool waters of the fountain?
Princess, youngest princess!
Open the door for me!”