The sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might
think he was a ghost. The boy cried a second time, “What do you want
here?—speak if thou art an honest fellow, or I will throw thee down the
steps!” The sexton thought, “he can’t intend to be as bad as his
words,” uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone. Then
the boy called to him for the third time, and as that was also to no
purpose, he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs, so
that it fell down ten steps and remained lying there in a corner.
Thereupon he rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went
to bed, and fell asleep. The sexton’s wife waited a long time for her
husband, but he did not come back. At length she became uneasy, and
wakened the boy, and asked, “Dost thou not know where my husband is? He
climbed up the tower before thou didst.” “No, I don’t know,” replied
the boy, “but some one was standing by the sounding hole on the other
side of the steps, and as he would neither give an answer nor go away,
I took him for a scoundrel, and threw him downstairs, just go there and
you will see if it was he. I should be sorry if it were.” The woman ran
away and found her husband, who was lying moaning in the corner, and
had broken his leg.

She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the
boy’s father. “Your boy,” cried she, “has been the cause of a great
misfortune! He has thrown my husband down the steps and made him break
his leg. Take the good-for-nothing fellow away from our house.” The
father was terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy. “What wicked
tricks are these?” said he, “the devil must have put this into thy
head.” “Father,” he replied, “do listen to me. I am quite innocent. He
was standing there by night like one who is intending to do some evil.
I did not know who it was, and I entreated him three times either to
speak or to go away.” “Ah,” said the father, “I have nothing but
unhappiness with you. Go out of my sight. I will see thee no more.”

“Yes, father, right willingly, wait only until it is day. Then will I
go forth and learn how to shudder, and then I shall, at any rate,
understand one art which will support me.” “Learn what thou wilt,”
spake the father, “it is all the same to me. Here are fifty thalers for
thee. Take these and go into the wide world, and tell no one from
whence thou comest, and who is thy father, for I have reason to be
ashamed of thee.” “Yes, father, it shall be as you will. If you desire
nothing more than that, I can easily keep it in mind.”