But the youth said, “However difficult it may be, I will learn it and
for this purpose indeed have I journeyed forth.” He let the host have
no rest, until the latter told him, that not far from thence stood a
haunted castle where any one could very easily learn what shuddering
was, if he would but watch in it for three nights. The King had
promised that he who would venture should have his daughter to wife,
and she was the most beautiful maiden the sun shone on. Great treasures
likewise lay in the castle, which were guarded by evil spirits, and
these treasures would then be freed, and would make a poor man rich
enough. Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had
come out again. Then the youth went next morning to the King and said
if he were allowed he would watch three nights in the haunted castle. The King looked at him, and as the youth pleased him, he said, “Thou
mayest ask for three things to take into the castle with thee, but they
must be things without life.” Then he answered, “Then I ask for a fire,
a turning lathe, and a cutting-board with the knife.” The King had
these things carried into the castle for him during the day. When night
was drawing near, the youth went up and made himself a bright fire in
one of the rooms, placed the cutting-board and knife beside it, and
seated himself by the turning-lathe. “Ah, if I could but shudder!” said
he, “but I shall not learn it here either.” Towards midnight he was
about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it, something cried
suddenly from one corner, “Au, miau! how cold we are!” “You
simpletons!” cried he, “what are you crying about? If you are cold,
come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves.” And when he had
said that, two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat
down on each side of him, and looked savagely at him with their fiery
eyes. After a short time, when they had warmed themselves, they said,
“Comrade, shall we have a game at cards?” “Why not?” he replied, “but
just show me your paws.” Then they stretched out their claws. “Oh,”
said he, “what long nails you have! Wait, I must first cut them for
you.” Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the
cutting-board and screwed their feet fast. “I have looked at your
fingers,” said he, “and my fancy for card-playing has gone,” and he
struck them dead and threw them out into the water.