But when he had
made away with these two, and was about to sit down again by his fire,
out from every hole and corner came black cats and black dogs with
red-hot chains, and more and more of them came until he could no longer
stir, and they yelled horribly, and got on his fire, pulled it to
pieces, and tried to put it out. He watched them for a while quietly,
but at last when they were going too far, he seized his cutting-knife,
and cried, “Away with ye, vermin,” and began to cut them down. Part of
them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond. When he came back he fanned the embers of his fire again and warmed
himself. And as he thus sat, his eyes would keep open no longer, and he
felt a desire to sleep. Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the
corner. “That is the very thing for me,” said he, and got into it. When
he was just going to shut his eyes, however, the bed began to move of
its own accord, and went over the whole of the castle. “That’s right,”
said he, “but go faster.” Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were
harnessed to it, up and down, over thresholds and steps, but suddenly
hop, hop, it turned over upside down, and lay on him like a mountain. But he threw quilts and pillows up in the air, got out and said, “Now
any one who likes, may drive,” and lay down by his fire, and slept till
it was day. In the morning the King came, and when he saw him lying
there on the ground, he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he
was dead. Then said he, “After all it is a pity,—he is a handsome man.”
The youth heard it, got up, and said, “It has not come to that yet.”
Then the King was astonished, but very glad, and asked how he had
fared. “Very well indeed,” answered he; “one night is past, the two
others will get over likewise.” Then he went to the innkeeper, who
opened his eyes very wide, and said, “I never expected to see thee
alive again! Hast thou learnt how to shudder yet?” “No,” said he, “it
is all in vain. If some one would but tell me.”