At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
When they came to the meadow, there lay the wolf by the tree and snored
so loud that the branches shook. She looked at him on every side and
saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly. “Ah,
heavens,” said she, “is it possible that my poor children whom he has
swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?” Then the kid had to
run home and fetch scissors, and a needle and thread, and the goat cut
open the monster’s stomach, and hardly had she make one cut, than one
little kid thrust its head out, and when she cut farther, all six
sprang out one after another, and were all still alive, and had
suffered no injury whatever, for in his greediness the monster had
swallowed them down whole. What rejoicing there was! They embraced
their dear mother, and jumped like a sailor at his wedding. The mother,
however, said, “Now go and look for some big stones, and we will fill
the wicked beast’s stomach with them while he is still asleep.” Then
the seven kids dragged the stones thither with all speed, and put as
many of them into his stomach as they could get in; and the mother
sewed him up again in the greatest haste, so that he was not aware of
anything and never once stirred.

When the wolf at length had had his sleep out, he got on his legs, and
as the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty, he wanted to go to
a well to drink. But when he began to walk and move about, the stones
in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled. Then cried he,

“What rumbles and tumbles
Against my poor bones?
I thought ’t was six kids,
But it’s naught but big stones.”

And when he got to the well and stooped over the water and was just
about to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in, and there was no
help, but he had to drown miserably. When the seven kids saw that, they
came running to the spot and cried aloud, “The wolf is dead! The wolf
is dead!” and danced for joy round about the well with their mother.

6 Faithful John