When therefore they came to shore, all happened as had been foretold by
the ravens, and a magnificent chestnut horse sprang forward. “Good,”
said the King, “he shall carry me to my palace,” and was about to mount
it when Faithful John got before him, jumped quickly on it, drew the
pistol out of the holster, and shot the horse. Then the other
attendants of the King, who after all were not very fond of Faithful
John, cried, “How shameful to kill the beautiful animal, that was to
have carried the King to his palace.” But the King said, “Hold your
peace and leave him alone, he is my most faithful John, who knows what
may be the good of that!” They went into the palace, and in the hall
there stood a dish, and therein lay the bridal garment looking no
otherwise than as if it were made of gold and silver. The young King
went towards it and was about to take hold of it, but Faithful John
pushed him away, seized it with gloves on, carried it quickly to the
fire and burnt it. The other attendants again began to murmur, and
said, “Behold, now he is even burning the King’s bridal garment!” But
the young King said, “Who knows what good he may have done, leave him
alone, he is my most faithful John.”

And now the wedding was solemnized: the dance began, and the bride also
took part in it; then Faithful John was watchful and looked into her
face, and suddenly she turned pale and fell to the ground, as if she
were dead. On this he ran hastily to her, lifted her up and bore her
into a chamber—then he laid her down, and knelt and sucked the three
drops of blood from her right breast, and spat them out. Immediately
she breathed again and recovered herself, but the young King had seen
this, and being ignorant why Faithful John had done it, was angry and
cried, “Throw him into a dungeon.” Next morning Faithful John was
condemned, and led to the gallows, and when he stood on high, and was
about to be executed, he said, “Every one who has to die is permitted
before his end to make one last speech; may I too claim the right?”
“Yes,” answered the King, “it shall be granted unto thee.” Then said
Faithful John, “I am unjustly condemned, and have always been true to
thee,” and he related how he had hearkened to the conversation of the
ravens when on the sea, and how he had been obliged to do all these
things in order to save his master. Then cried the King, “Oh, my most
Faithful John. Pardon, pardon—bring him down.” But as Faithful John
spoke the last word he had fallen down lifeless and become a stone.