Thereupon the King and the Queen suffered great anguish, and the King
said, “Ah, how ill I have requited great fidelity!” and ordered the
stone figure to be taken up and placed in his bedroom beside his bed.
And as often as he looked on it he wept and said, “Ah, if I could bring
thee to life again, my most faithful John.” Some time passed and the
Queen bore twins, two sons who grew fast and were her delight. Once
when the Queen was at church and the two children were sitting playing
beside their father, the latter full of grief again looked at the stone
figure, sighed and said, “Ah, if I could but bring thee to life again,
my most faithful John.” Then the stone began to speak and said, “Thou
canst bring me to life again if thou wilt use for that purpose what is
dearest to thee.” Then cried the King, “I will give everything I have
in the world for thee.” The stone continued, “If thou wilt will cut off
the heads of thy two children with thine own hand, and sprinkle me with
their blood, I shall be restored to life.”

The King was terrified when he heard that he himself must kill his
dearest children, but he thought of faithful John’s great fidelity, and
how he had died for him, drew his sword, and with his own hand cut off
the children’s heads. And when he had smeared the stone with their
blood, life returned to it, and Faithful John stood once more safe and
healthy before him. He said to the King, “Thy truth shall not go
unrewarded,” and took the heads of the children, put them on again, and
rubbed the wounds with their blood, on which they became whole again
immediately, and jumped about, and went on playing as if nothing had
happened. Then the King was full of joy, and when he saw the Queen
coming he hid Faithful John and the two children in a great cupboard.
When she entered, he said to her, “Hast thou been praying in the
church?” “Yes,” answered she, “but I have constantly been thinking of
Faithful John and what misfortune has befallen him through us.” Then
said he, “Dear wife, we can give him his life again, but it will cost
us our two little sons, whom we must sacrifice.” The Queen turned pale,
and her heart was full of terror, but she said, “We owe it to him, for
his great fidelity.” Then the King was rejoiced that she thought as he
had thought, and went and opened the cupboard, and brought forth
Faithful John and the children, and said, “God be praised, he is
delivered, and we have our little sons again also,” and told her how
everything had occurred. Then they dwelt together in much happiness
until their death.

7 The Good Bargain