After a while he bought another cow, which he killed, and he made the
calculation that if he sold the meat well he might gain as much as the
two cows were worth, and have the skin into the bargain. When therefore
he got to the town with the meat, a great troop of dogs were gathered
together in front of the gate, with a large greyhound at the head of
them, which jumped at the meat, snuffed at it, and barked, “Wow, wow,
wow.” As there was no stopping him, the peasant said to him, “Yes, yes,
I know quite well that thou art saying, ‘wow, wow, wow,’ because thou
wantest some of the meat; but I should fare badly if I were to give it
to thee.” The dog, however, answered nothing but “wow, wow.” “Wilt thou
promise not to devour it all then, and wilt thou go bail for thy
companions?” “Wow, wow, wow,” said the dog. “Well, if thou insistest on
it, I will leave it for thee; I know thee well, and know who is thy
master; but this I tell thee, I must have my money in three days or
else it will go ill with thee; thou must just bring it out to me.”
Thereupon he unloaded the meat and turned back again, the dogs fell
upon it and loudly barked, “wow, wow.”

The countryman, who heard them from afar, said to himself, “Hark, now
they all want some, but the big one is responsible to me for it.”

When three days had passed, the countryman thought, “To-night my money
will be in my pocket,” and was quite delighted. But no one would come
and pay it. “There is no trusting any one now,” said he; and at last he
lost patience, and went into the town to the butcher and demanded his
money. The butcher thought it was a joke, but the peasant said,
“Jesting apart, I will have my money! Did not the great dog bring you
the whole of the slaughtered cow three days ago?” Then the butcher grew
angry, snatched a broomstick and drove him out. “Wait a while,” said
the peasant, “there is still some justice in the world!” and went to
the royal palace and begged for an audience. He was led before the
King, who sat there with his daughter, and asked him what injury he had
suffered. “Alas!” said he, “the frogs and the dogs have taken from me
what is mine, and the butcher has paid me for it with the stick,” and
he related at full length all that had happened. Thereupon the King’s
daughter began to laugh heartily, and the King said to him, “I cannot
give you justice in this, but you shall have my daughter to wife for
it,—in her whole life she has never yet laughed as she has just done at
thee, and I have promised her to him who could make her laugh. Thou
mayst thank God for thy good fortune!”