After a while he again said to himself, “Time is beginning to pass
heavily with me here in the forest, I will fetch hither another
companion,” and took his fiddle and again played in the forest. It was
not long before a fox came creeping through the trees towards him. “Ah,
there’s a fox coming!” said the musician. “I have no desire for him.”
The fox came up to him and said, “Oh, dear musician, how beautifully
thou dost play! I should like to learn that too.” “That is soon
learnt,” said the musician. “Thou hast only to do everything that I bid
thee.” “Oh, musician,” then said the fox, “I will obey thee as a
scholar obeys his master.” “Follow me,” said the musician; and when
they had walked a part of the way, they came to a footpath, with high
bushes on both sides of it. There the musician stood still, and from
one side bent a young hazel-bush down to the ground, and put his foot
on the top of it, then he bent down a young tree from the other side as
well, and said, “Now little fox, if thou wilt learn something, give me
thy left front paw.” The fox obeyed, and the musician fastened his paw
to the left bough. “Little fox,” said he, “now reach me thy right paw”
and he tied it to the right bough. When he had examined whether they
were firm enough, he let go, and the bushes sprang up again, and jerked
up the little fox, so that it hung struggling in the air. “Wait there
till I come back again,” said the musician, and went his way.

Again he said to himself, “Time is beginning to pass heavily with me
here in the forest, I will fetch hither another companion,” so he took
his fiddle, and the sound echoed through the forest. Then a little hare
came springing towards him. “Why, a hare is coming,” said the musician,
“I do not want him.” “Ah, dear musician,” said the hare, “how
beautifully thou dost fiddle; I too, should like to learn that.” “That
is soon learnt,” said the musician, “thou hast only to do everything
that I bid thee.”

“Oh, musician,” replied the little hare, “I will obey thee as a scholar
obeys his master.” They went a part of the way together until they came
to an open space in the forest, where stood an aspen tree. The musician
tied a long string round the little hare’s neck, the other end of which
he fastened to the tree. “Now briskly, little hare, run twenty times
round the tree!” cried the musician, and the little hare obeyed, and
when it had run round twenty times, it had twisted the string twenty
times round the trunk of the tree, and the little hare was caught, and
let it pull and tug as it liked, it only made the string cut into its
tender neck. “Wait there till I come back,” said the musician, and went
onwards.