The little daughter which their mother the Queen had given birth to,
was now grown up; she was good of heart, and fair of face, and had a
golden star on her forehead. Once, when it was the great washing, she
saw twelve men’s shirts among the things, and asked her mother, “To
whom do these twelve shirts belong, for they are far too small for
father?” Then the Queen answered with a heavy heart, “Dear child, these
belong to thy twelve brothers.” Said the maiden, “Where are my twelve
brothers, I have never yet heard of them?” She replied, “God knows
where they are, they are wandering about the world.” Then she took the
maiden and opened the chamber for her, and showed her the twelve
coffins with the shavings, and pillows for the head. “These coffins,”
said she, “were destined for thy brothers, but they went away secretly
before thou wert born,” and she related to her how everything had
happened; then said the maiden, “Dear mother, weep not, I will go and
seek my brothers.”

So she took the twelve shirts and went forth, and straight into the
great forest. She walked the whole day, and in the evening she came to
the bewitched hut. Then she entered it and found a young boy, who
asked, “From whence comest thou, and whither art thou bound?” and was
astonished that she was so beautiful, and wore royal garments, and had
a star on her forehead. And she answered, “I am a king’s daughter, and
am seeking my twelve brothers, and I will walk as far as the sky is
blue until I find them.” She likewise showed him the twelve shirts
which belonged to them. Then Benjamin saw that she was his sister, and
said, “I am Benjamin, thy youngest brother.” And she began to weep for
joy, and Benjamin wept also, and they kissed and embraced each other
with the greatest love. But after this he said, “Dear sister, there is
still one difficulty. We have agreed that every maiden whom we meet
shall die, because we have been obliged to leave our kingdom on account
of a girl.” Then said she, “I will willingly die, if by so doing I can
deliver my twelve brothers.”

“No,” answered he, “thou shalt not die, seat thyself beneath this tub
until our eleven brothers come, and then I will soon come to an
agreement with them.”

She did so, and when it was night the others came from hunting, and
their dinner was ready. And as they were sitting at table, and eating,
they asked, “What news is there?” Said Benjamin, “Don’t you know
anything?” “No,” they answered. He continued, “You have been in the
forest and I have stayed at home, and yet I know more than you do.”
“Tell us then,” they cried. He answered, “But promise me that the first
maiden who meets us shall not be killed.” “Yes,” they all cried, “she
shall have mercy, only do tell us.”