11 Little Brother and Little Sister

Little brother took his little sister by the hand and said, “Since our
mother died we have had no happiness; our step-mother beats us every
day, and if we come near her she kicks us away with her foot. Our meals
are the hard crusts of bread that are left over; and the little dog
under the table is better off, for she often throws it a nice bit. May
Heaven pity us. If our mother only knew! Come, we will go forth
together into the wide world.”

They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stony places; and
when it rained the little sister said, “Heaven and our hearts are
weeping together.” In the evening they came to a large forest, and they
were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk, that they lay
down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.

The next day when they awoke, the sun was already high in the sky, and
shone down hot into the tree. Then the brother said, “Sister, I am
thirsty; if I knew of a little brook I would go and just take a drink;
I think I hear one running.” The brother got up and took the little
sister by the hand, and they set off to find the brook.

But the wicked step-mother was a witch, and had seen how the two
children had gone away, and had crept after them privily, as witches do
creep, and had bewitched all the brooks in the forest.

Now when they found a little brook leaping brightly over the stones,
the brother was going to drink out of it, but the sister heard how it
said as it ran, “Who drinks of me will be a tiger; who drinks of me
will be a tiger.” Then the sister cried, “Pray, dear brother, do not
drink, or you will become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces.” The
brother did not drink, although he was so thirsty, but said, “I will
wait for the next spring.”

When they came to the next brook the sister heard this also say, “Who
drinks of me will be a wolf; who drinks of me will be a wolf.” Then the
sister cried out, “Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become
a wolf, and devour me.” The brother did not drink, and said, “I will
wait until we come to the next spring, but then I must drink, say what
you like; for my thirst is too great.”