And when they came to the third brook the sister heard how it said as
it ran, “Who drinks of me will be a roebuck; who drinks of me will be a
roebuck.” The sister said, “Oh, I pray you, dear brother, do not drink,
or you will become a roebuck, and run away from me.” But the brother
had knelt down at once by the brook, and had bent down and drunk some
of the water, and as soon as the first drops touched his lips he lay
there a young roebuck.

And now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother, and the little
roe wept also, and sat sorrowfully near to her. But at last the girl
said, “Be quiet, dear little roe, I will never, never leave you.”

Then she untied her golden garter and put it round the roebuck’s neck,
and she plucked rushes and wove them into a soft cord. With this she
tied the little beast and led it on, and she walked deeper and deeper
into the forest.

And when they had gone a very long way they came at last to a little
house, and the girl looked in; and as it was empty, she thought, “We
can stay here and live.” Then she sought for leaves and moss to make a
soft bed for the roe; and every morning she went out and gathered roots
and berries and nuts for herself, and brought tender grass for the roe,
who ate out of her hand, and was content and played round about her. In
the evening, when the sister was tired, and had said her prayer, she
laid her head upon the roebuck’s back: that was her pillow, and she
slept softly on it. And if only the brother had had his human form it
would have been a delightful life.

For some time they were alone like this in the wilderness. But it
happened that the King of the country held a great hunt in the forest.
Then the blasts of the horns, the barking of dogs, and the merry shouts
of the huntsmen rang through the trees, and the roebuck heard all, and
was only too anxious to be there. “Oh,” said he, to his sister, “let me
be off to the hunt, I cannot bear it any longer;” and he begged so much
that at last she agreed. “But,” said she to him, “come back to me in
the evening; I must shut my door for fear of the rough huntsmen, so
knock and say, ‘My little sister, let me in!’ that I may know you; and
if you do not say that, I shall not open the door.” Then the young
roebuck sprang away; so happy was he and so merry in the open air.