As soon as the sun had set, the King said to the huntsman, “Now come
and show me the cottage in the wood;” and when he was at the door, he
knocked and called out, “Dear little sister, let me in.” Then the door
opened, and the King walked in, and there stood a maiden more lovely
than any he had ever seen. The maiden was frightened when she saw, not
her little roe, but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his
head. But the King looked kindly at her, stretched out his hand, and
said, “Will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife?” “Yes,
indeed,” answered the maiden, “but the little roe must go with me, I
cannot leave him.” The King said, “It shall stay with you as long as
you live, and shall want nothing.” Just then he came running in, and
the sister again tied him with the cord of rushes, took it in her own
hand, and went away with the King from the cottage.

The King took the lovely maiden upon his horse and carried her to his
palace, where the wedding was held with great pomp. She was now the
Queen, and they lived for a long time happily together; the roebuck was
tended and cherished, and ran about in the palace-garden.

But the wicked step-mother, because of whom the children had gone out
into the world, thought all the time that the sister had been torn to
pieces by the wild beasts in the wood, and that the brother had been
shot for a roebuck by the huntsmen. Now when she heard that they were
so happy, and so well off, envy and hatred rose in her heart and left
her no peace, and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them
again to misfortune. Her own daughter, who was ugly as night, and had
only one eye, grumbled at her and said, “A Queen! that ought to have
been my luck.” “Only be quiet,” answered the old woman, and comforted
her by saying, “when the time comes I shall be ready.”

As time went on, the Queen had a pretty little boy, and it happened
that the King was out hunting; so the old witch took the form of the
chamber-maid, went into the room where the Queen lay, and said to her,
“Come, the bath is ready; it will do you good, and give you fresh
strength; make haste before it gets cold.”

The daughter also was close by; so they carried the weakly Queen into
the bath-room, and put her into the bath; then they shut the door and
ran away. But in the bath-room they had made a fire of such deadly heat
that the beautiful young Queen was soon suffocated.