Then the maiden was obedient, and put on the paper frock, and went out
with the basket. Far and wide there was nothing but snow, and not a
green blade to be seen. When she got into the wood she saw a small
house out of which peeped three dwarfs. She wished them good day, and
knocked modestly at the door. They cried, “Come in,” and she entered
the room and seated herself on the bench by the stove, where she began
to warm herself and eat her breakfast. The elves said, “Give us, too,
some of it.” “Willingly,” she said, and divided her bit of bread in two
and gave them the half. They asked, “What dost thou here in the forest
in the winter time, in thy thin dress?” “Ah,” she answered, “I am to
look for a basketful of strawberries, and am not to go home until I can
take them with me.” When she had eaten her bread, they gave her a broom
and said, “Sweep away the snow at the back door with it.” But when she
was outside, the three little men said to each other, “What shall we
give her as she is so good, and has shared her bread with us?” Then
said the first, “My gift is, that she shall every day grow more
beautiful.” The second said, “My gift is, that gold pieces shall fall
out of her mouth every time she speaks.” The third said, “My gift is,
that a king shall come and take her to wife.”

The girl, however, did as the little men had bidden her, swept away the
snow behind the little house with the broom, and what did she find but
real ripe strawberries, which came up quite dark-red out of the snow!
In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full, thanked the little
men, shook hands with each of them, and ran home to take her
step-mother what she had longed for so much. When she went in and said
good-evening, a piece of gold at once fell from her mouth. Thereupon
she related what had happened to her in the wood, but with every word
she spoke, gold pieces fell from her mouth, until very soon the whole
room was covered with them. “Now look at her arrogance,” cried the
step-sister, “to throw about gold in that way!” but she was secretly
envious of it, and wanted to go into the forest also to seek
strawberries. The mother said, “No, my dear little daughter, it is too
cold, thou mightest die of cold.” However, as her daughter let her have
no peace, the mother at last yielded, made her a magnificent dress of
fur, which she was obliged to put on, and gave her bread-and-butter and
cake with her.