The girl went into the forest and straight up to the little house. The
three little elves peeped out again, but she did not greet them, and
without looking round at them and without speaking to them, she went
awkwardly into the room, seated herself by the stove, and began to eat
her bread-and-butter and cake. “Give us some of it,” cried the little
men; but she replied, “There is not enough for myself, so how can I
give it away to other people?” When she had done eating, they said,
“There is a broom for thee, sweep all clean for us outside by the
back-door.” “Humph! Sweep for yourselves,” she answered, “I am not your
servant.” When she saw that they were not going to give her anything,
she went out by the door. Then the little men said to each other, “What
shall we give her as she is so naughty, and has a wicked envious heart,
that will never let her do a good turn to any one?” The first said, “I
grant that she may grow uglier every day.” The second said, “I grant
that at every word she says, a toad shall spring out of her mouth.” The
third said, “I grant that she may die a miserable death.” The maiden
looked for strawberries outside, but as she found none, she went
angrily home. And when she opened her mouth, and was about to tell her
mother what had happened to her in the wood, with every word she said,
a toad sprang out of her mouth, so that every one was seized with
horror of her.

Then the step-mother was still more enraged, and thought of nothing but
how to do every possible injury to the man’s daughter, whose beauty,
however, grew daily greater. At length she took a cauldron, set it on
the fire, and boiled yarn in it. When it was boiled, she flung it on
the poor girl’s shoulder, and gave her an axe in order that she might
go on the frozen river, cut a hole in the ice, and rinse the yarn. She
was obedient, went thither and cut a hole in the ice; and while she was
in the midst of her cutting, a splendid carriage came driving up, in
which sat the King. The carriage stopped, and the King asked,”My child,
who are thou, and what art thou doing here?” “I am a poor girl, and I
am rinsing yarn.” Then the King felt compassion, and when he saw that
she was so very beautiful, he said to her, “Wilt thou go away with me?”
“Ah, yes, with all my heart,” she answered, for she was glad to get
away from the mother and sister.