When the maiden showed the Queen the empty rooms, and the great heap of
yarn, she gave orders for the wedding, and the bridegroom rejoiced that
he was to have such a clever and industrious wife, and praised her
mightily. “I have three aunts,” said the girl, “and as they have been
very kind to me, I should not like to forget them in my good fortune;
allow me to invite them to the wedding, and let them sit with us at
table.” The Queen and the bridegroom said, “Why should we not allow
that?” Therefore when the feast began, the three women entered in
strange apparel, and the bride said, “Welcome, dear aunts.” “Ah,” said
the bridegroom, “how comest thou by these odious friends?” Thereupon he
went to the one with the broad flat foot, and said, “How do you come by
such a broad foot?” “By treading,” she answered, “by treading.” Then
the bridegroom went to the second, and said, “How do you come by your
falling lip?” “By licking,” she answered, “by licking.” Then he asked
the third, “How do you come by your broad thumb?” “By twisting the
thread,” she answered, “by twisting the thread.” On this the King’s son
was alarmed and said, “Neither now nor ever shall my beautiful bride
touch a spinning-wheel.” And thus she got rid of the hateful
flax-spinning.

15 Hansel and Grethel

Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his wife and his
two children. The boy was called Hansel and the girl Grethel. He had
little to bite and to break, and once when great scarcity fell on the
land, he could no longer procure daily bread. Now when he thought over
this by night in his bed, and tossed about in his anxiety, he groaned
and said to his wife, “What is to become of us? How are we to feed our
poor children, when we no longer have anything even for ourselves?”
“I’ll tell you what, husband,” answered the woman, “Early to-morrow
morning we will take the children out into the forest to where it is
the thickest, there we will light a fire for them, and give each of
them one piece of bread more, and then we will go to our work and leave
them alone. They will not find the way home again, and we shall be rid
of them.” “No, wife,” said the man, “I will not do that; how can I bear
to leave my children alone in the forest?—the wild animals would soon
come and tear them to pieces.” “O, thou fool!” said she, “Then we must
all four die of hunger, thou mayest as well plane the planks for our
coffins,” and she left him no peace until he consented. “But I feel
very sorry for the poor children, all the same,” said the man.