The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger, and had
heard what their step-mother had said to their father. Grethel wept
bitter tears, and said to Hansel, “Now all is over with us.” “Be quiet,
Grethel,” said Hansel, “do not distress thyself, I will soon find a way
to help us.” And when the old folks had fallen asleep, he got up, put
on his little coat, opened the door below, and crept outside. The moon
shone brightly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house
glittered like real silver pennies. Hansel stooped and put as many of
them in the little pocket of his coat as he could possibly get in. Then
he went back and said to Grethel, “Be comforted, dear little sister,
and sleep in peace, God will not forsake us,” and he lay down again in
his bed. When day dawned, but before the sun had risen, the woman came
and awoke the two children, saying “Get up, you sluggards! we are going
into the forest to fetch wood.” She gave each a little piece of bread,
and said, “There is something for your dinner, but do not eat it up
before then, for you will get nothing else.” Grethel took the bread
under her apron, as Hansel had the stones in his pocket. Then they all
set out together on the way to the forest. When they had walked a short
time, Hansel stood still and peeped back at the house, and did so again
and again. His father said, “Hansel, what art thou looking at there and
staying behind for? Mind what thou art about, and do not forget how to
use thy legs.” “Ah, father,” said Hansel, “I am looking at my little
white cat, which is sitting up on the roof, and wants to say good-bye
to me.” The wife said, “Fool, that is not thy little cat, that is the
morning sun which is shining on the chimneys.” Hansel, however, had not
been looking back at the cat, but had been constantly throwing one of
the white pebble-stones out of his pocket on the road.

When they had reached the middle of the forest, the father said, “Now,
children, pile up some wood, and I will light a fire that you may not
be cold.” Hansel and Grethel gathered brushwood together, as high as a
little hill. The brushwood was lighted, and when the flames were
When we have done, we will come back and fetch you away.”