It was now three mornings since they had left their father’s house.
They began to walk again, but they always got deeper into the forest,
and if help did not come soon, they must die of hunger and weariness.
When it was mid-day, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a
bough, which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to
it. And when it had finished its song, it spread its wings and flew
away before them, and they followed it until they reached a little
house, on the roof of which it alighted; and when they came quite up to
little house they saw that it was built of bread and covered with
cakes, but that the windows were of clear sugar. “We will set to work
on that,” said Hansel, “and have a good meal. I will eat a bit of the
roof, and thou, Grethel, canst eat some of the window, it will taste
sweet.” Hansel reached up above, and broke off a little of the roof to
try how it tasted, and Grethel leant against the window and nibbled at
the panes. Then a soft voice cried from the room,

“Nibble, nibble, gnaw,
Who is nibbling at my little house?”

The children answered,

“The wind, the wind,
The heaven-born wind,”

and went on eating without disturbing themselves. Hansel, who thought
the roof tasted very nice, tore down a great piece of it, and Grethel
pushed out the whole of one round window-pane, sat down, and enjoyed
herself with it. Suddenly the door opened, and a very, very old woman,
who supported herself on crutches, came creeping out. Hansel and
Grethel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in
their hands. The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said, “Oh,
you dear children, who has brought you here? Do come in, and stay with
me. No harm shall happen to you.” She took them both by the hand, and
led them into her little house. Then good food was set before them,
milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts. Afterwards two pretty
little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Grethel
lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.