The old woman had only pretended to be so kind; she was in reality a
wicked witch, who lay in wait for children, and had only built the
little house of bread in order to entice them there. When a child fell
into her power, she killed it, cooked and ate it, and that was a feast
day with her. Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have
a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw
near. When Hansel and Grethel came into her neighborhood, she laughed
maliciously, and said mockingly, “I have them, they shall not escape me
again!” Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was
already up, and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so
pretty, with their plump red cheeks, she muttered to herself, “That
will be a dainty mouthful!” Then she seized Hansel with her shrivelled
hand, carried him into a little stable, and shut him in with a grated
door. He might scream as he liked, that was of no use. Then she went to
Grethel, shook her till she awoke, and cried, “Get up, lazy thing,
fetch some water, and cook something good for thy brother, he is in the
stable outside, and is to be made fat. When he is fat, I will eat him.”
Grethel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, she was forced
to do what the wicked witch ordered her.

And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Grethel got
nothing but crab-shells. Every morning the woman crept to the little
stable, and cried, “Hansel, stretch out thy finger that I may feel if
thou wilt soon be fat.” Hansel, however, stretched out a little bone to
her, and the old woman, who had dim eyes, could not see it, and thought
it was Hansel’s finger, and was astonished that there was no way of
fattening him. When four weeks had gone by, and Hansel still continued
thin, she was seized with impatience and would not wait any longer.
“Hola, Grethel,” she cried to the girl, “be active, and bring some
water. Let Hansel be fat or lean, to-morrow I will kill him, and cook
him.” Ah, how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch
the water, and how her tears did flow down over her cheeks! “Dear God,
do help us,” she cried. “If the wild beasts in the forest had but
devoured us, we should at any rate have died together.” “Just keep thy
noise to thyself,” said the old woman, “all that won’t help thee at
all.”