Early in the morning, Grethel had to go out and hang up the cauldron
with the water, and light the fire. “We will bake first,” said the old
woman, “I have already heated the oven, and kneaded the dough.” She
pushed poor Grethel out to the oven, from which flames of fire were
already darting. “Creep in,” said the witch, “and see if it is properly
heated, so that we can shut the bread in.” And when once Grethel was
inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then
she would eat her, too. But Grethel saw what she had in her mind, and
said, “I do not know how I am to do it; how do you get in?” “Silly
goose,” said the old woman, “The door is big enough; just look, I can
get in myself!” and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven.
Then Grethel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the
iron door, and fastened the bolt. Oh! then she began to howl quite
horribly, but Grethel ran away, and the godless witch was miserably
burnt to death.

Grethel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little
stable, and cried, “Hansel, we are saved! The old witch is dead!” Then
Hansel sprang out like a bird from its cage when the door is opened for
it. How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance about and
kiss each other! And as they had no longer any need to fear her, they
went into the witch’s house, and in every corner there stood chests
full of pearls and jewels. “These are far better than pebbles!” said
Hansel, and thrust into his pockets whatever could be got in, and
Grethel said, “I, too, will take something home with me,” and filled
her pinafore full. “But now we will go away.” said Hansel, “that we may
get out of the witch’s forest.”

When they had walked for two hours, they came to a great piece of
water. “We cannot get over,” said Hansel, “I see no foot-plank, and no
bridge.” “And no boat crosses either,” answered Grethel, “but a white
duck is swimming there; if I ask her, she will help us over.” Then she
cried,

“Little duck, little duck, dost thou see,
Hansel and Grethel are waiting for thee?
There’s never a plank, or bridge in sight,
Take us across on thy back so white.”