The youth did not know where the Tree of Life stood, but he set out,
and would have gone on for ever, as long as his legs would carry him,
though he had no hope of finding it. After he had wandered through
three kingdoms, he came one evening to a wood, and lay down under a
tree to sleep. But he heard a rustling in the branches, and a golden
apple fell into his hand. At the same time three ravens flew down to
him, perched themselves upon his knee, and said, “We are the three
young ravens whom you saved from starving; when we had grown big, and
heard that you were seeking the Golden Apple, we flew over the sea to
the end of the world, where the Tree of Life stands, and have brought
you the apple.” The youth, full of joy, set out homewards, and took the
Golden Apple to the King’s beautiful daughter, who had no more excuses
left to make. They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together;
and then her heart became full of love for him, and they lived in
undisturbed happiness to a great age.

18 The Straw, the Coal, and the Bean

In a village dwelt a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish
of beans and wanted to cook them. So she made a fire on her hearth, and
that it might burn the quicker, she lighted it with a handful of straw.
When she was emptying the beans into the pan, one dropped without her
observing it, and lay on the ground beside a straw, and soon afterwards
a burning coal from the fire leapt down to the two. Then the straw
began and said, “Dear friends, from whence do you come here?” The coal
replied, “I fortunately sprang out of the fire, and if I had not
escaped by main force, my death would have been certain,—I should have
been burnt to ashes.” The bean said, “I too have escaped with a whole
skin, but if the old woman had got me into the pan, I should have been
made into broth without any mercy, like my comrades.” “And would a
better fate have fallen to my lot?” said the straw. “The old woman has
destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them
at once, and took their lives. I luckily slipped through her fingers.”

“But what are we to do now?” said the coal.

“I think,” answered the bean, “that as we have so fortunately escaped
death, we should keep together like good companions, and lest a new
mischance should overtake us here, we should go away together, and
repair to a foreign country.”