The proposition pleased the two others, and they set out on their way
in company. Soon, however, they came to a little brook, and as there
was no bridge or foot-plank, they did not know how they were to get
over it. The straw hit on a good idea, and said, “I will lay myself
straight across, and then you can walk over on me as on a bridge.” The
straw therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other, and the
coal, who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to
the newly-built bridge. But when she had reached the middle, and heard
the water rushing beneath her, she was, after all, afraid, and stood
still, and ventured no farther. The straw, however, began to burn,
broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream. The coal slipped after
her, hissed when she got into the water, and breathed her last. The
bean, who had prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh
at the event, was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that she
burst. It would have been all over with her, likewise, if, by good
fortune, a tailor who was traveling in search of work, had not sat down
to rest by the brook. As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out his
needle and thread, and sewed her together. The bean thanked him most
prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then
have a black seam.

19 The Fisherman and His Wife

There was once on a time a Fisherman who lived with his wife in a
miserable hovel close by the sea, and every day he went out fishing.
And once as he was sitting with his rod, looking at the clear water,
his line suddenly went down, far down below, and when he drew it up
again he brought out a large Flounder. Then the Flounder said to him,
“Hark, you Fisherman, I pray you, let me live, I am no Flounder really,
but an enchanted prince. What good will it do you to kill me? I should
not be good to eat, put me in the water again, and let me go.” “Come,”
said the Fisherman, “there is no need for so many words about it—a fish
that can talk I should certainly let go, anyhow,” with that he put him
back again into the clear water, and the Flounder went to the bottom,
leaving a long streak of blood behind him. Then the Fisherman got up
and went home to his wife in the hovel.