Then he went and stood before her, and said, “Ah, wife, and now you are
King.” “Yes,” said the woman, “now I am King.” So he stood and looked
at her, and when he had looked at her thus for some time, he said, “And
now that you are King, let all else be, now we will wish for nothing
more.” “Nay, husband,” said the woman, quite anxiously, “I find time
pass very heavily, I can bear it no longer; go to the Flounder—I am
King, but I must be Emperor, too.” “Alas, wife, why do you wish to be
Emperor?” “Husband,” said she, “go to the Flounder. I will be Emperor.”
“Alas, wife,” said the man, “he cannot make you Emperor; I may not say
that to the fish. There is only one Emperor in the land. An Emperor the
Flounder cannot make you! I assure you he cannot.”

“What!” said the woman, “I am the King, and you are nothing but my
husband; will you go this moment? go at once! If he can make a King he
can make an emperor. I will be Emperor; go instantly.” So he was forced
to go. As the man went, however, he was troubled in mind, and thought
to himself, “It will not end well; it will not end well! Emperor is too
shameless! The Flounder will at last be tired out.”

With that he reached the sea, and the sea was quite black and thick,
and began to boil up from below, so that it threw up bubbles, and such
a sharp wind blew over it that it curdled, and the man was afraid. Then
he went and stood by it, and said,

“Flounder, flounder in the sea,
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
For my wife, good Ilsabil,
Wills not as I’d have her will.”

“Well, what does she want, then?” said the Flounder. “Alas, Flounder,”
said he, “my wife wants to be Emperor.” “Go to her,” said the Flounder;
“she is Emperor already.”

So the man went, and when he got there the whole palace was made of
polished marble with alabaster figures and golden ornaments, and
soldiers were marching before the door blowing trumpets, and beating
cymbals and drums; and in the house, barons, and counts, and dukes were
going about as servants. Then they opened the doors to him, which were
of pure gold. And when he entered, there sat his wife on a throne,
which was made of one piece of gold, and was quite two miles high; and
she wore a great golden crown that was three yards high, and set with
diamonds and carbuncles, and in one hand she had the sceptre, and in
the other the imperial orb; and on both sides of her stood the yeomen
of the guard in two rows, each being smaller than the one before him,
from the biggest giant, who was two miles high, to the very smallest
dwarf, just as big as my little finger. And before it stood a number of
princes and dukes.