The man slept well and soundly, for he had run about a great deal
during the day; but the woman could not fall asleep at all, and flung
herself from one side to the other the whole night through, thinking
always what more was left for her to be, but unable to call to mind
anything else. At length the sun began to rise, and when the woman saw
the red of dawn, she sat up in bed and looked at it. And when, through
the window, she saw the sun thus rising, she said, “Cannot I, too,
order the sun and moon to rise?” “Husband,” she said, poking him in the
ribs with her elbows, “wake up! go to the Flounder, for I wish to be
even as God is.” The man was still half asleep, but he was so horrified
that he fell out of bed. He thought he must have heard amiss, and
rubbed his eyes, and said, “Alas, wife, what are you saying?”
“Husband,” said she, “if I can’t order the sun and moon to rise, and
have to look on and see the sun and moon rising, I can’t bear it. I
shall not know what it is to have another happy hour, unless I can make
them rise myself.” Then she looked at him so terribly that a shudder
ran over him, and said, “Go at once; I wish to be like unto God.”
“Alas, wife,” said the man, falling on his knees before her, “the
Flounder cannot do that; he can make an emperor and a pope; I beseech
you, go on as you are, and be Pope.” Then she fell into a rage, and her
hair flew wildly about her head, and she cried, “I will not endure
this, I’ll not bear it any longer; wilt thou go?” Then he put on his
trousers and ran away like a madman. But outside a great storm was
raging, and blowing so hard that he could scarcely keep his feet;
houses and trees toppled over, the mountains trembled, rocks rolled
into the sea, the sky was pitch black, and it thundered and lightened,
and the sea came in with black waves as high as church-towers and
mountains, and all with crests of white foam at the top. Then he cried,
but could not hear his own words,

“Flounder, flounder in the sea,
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
For my wife, good Ilsabil,
Wills not as I’d have her will.”

“Well, what does she want, then?” said the Flounder. “Alas,” said he,
“she wants to be like unto God.” “Go to her, and you will find her back
again in the dirty hovel.” And there they are living still at this very
time.

20 The Valiant Little Tailor