Then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window, and afterwards
the turtle-doves, and at length all the birds beneath the sky, came
whirring and crowding in, and alighted amongst the ashes. And the doves
nodded with their heads and began pick, pick, pick, pick, and the
others began also pick, pick, pick, pick, and gathered all the good
seeds into the dishes, and before half an hour was over they had
already finished, and all flew out again. Then the maiden carried the
dishes to the step-mother and was delighted, and believed that she
might now go with them to the festival. But the step-mother said, “All
this will not help thee; thou goest not with us, for thou hast no
clothes and canst not dance; we should be ashamed of thee!” On this she
turned her back on Cinderella, and hurried away with her two proud
daughters.

As no one was now at home, Cinderella went to her mother’s grave
beneath the hazel-tree, and cried,

“Shiver and quiver, little tree,
Silver and gold throw down over me.”

Then the bird threw a gold and silver dress down to her, and slippers
embroidered with silk and silver. She put on the dress with all speed,
and went to the festival. Her step-sisters and the step-mother however
did not know her, and thought she must be a foreign princess, for she
looked so beautiful in the golden dress. They never once thought of
Cinderella, and believed that she was sitting at home in the dirt,
and never left loose of her hand, and if any one else came to invite
her, he said, “This is my partner.”

She danced till it was evening, and then she wanted to go home. But the
King’s son said, “I will go with thee and bear thee company,” for he
wished to see to whom the beautiful maiden belonged. She escaped from
him, however, and sprang into the pigeon-house. The King’s son waited
until her father came, and then he told him that the stranger maiden
had leapt into the pigeon-house. The old man thought, “Can it be
Cinderella?” and they had to bring him an axe and a pickaxe that he
might hew the pigeon-house to pieces, but no one was inside it. And
when they got home Cinderella lay in her dirty clothes among the ashes,
and a dim little oil-lamp was burning on the mantle-piece, for
Cinderella had jumped quickly down from the back of the pigeon-house
and had run to the little hazel-tree, and there she had taken off her
beautiful clothes and laid them on the grave, and the bird had taken
them away again, and then she had placed herself in the kitchen amongst
the ashes in her grey gown.

Next day when the festival began afresh, and her parents and the
step-sisters had gone once more, Cinderella went to the hazel-tree and
said—

“Shiver and quiver, my little tree,
Silver and gold throw down over me.”