He looked down at her foot and saw how the blood was running out of her
shoe, and how it had stained her white stocking. Then he turned his
horse and took the false bride home again. “This also is not the right
one,” said he, “have you no other daughter?” “No,” said the man, “There
is still a little stunted kitchen-wench which my late wife left behind
her, but she cannot possibly be the bride.” The King’s son said he was
to send her up to him; but the mother answered, “Oh, no, she is much
too dirty, she cannot show herself!” He absolutely insisted on it, and
Cinderella had to be called. She first washed her hands and face clean,
and then went and bowed down before the King’s son, who gave her the
golden shoe. Then she seated herself on a stool, drew her foot out of
the heavy wooden shoe, and put it into the slipper, which fitted like a
glove. And when she rose up and the King’s son looked at her face he
recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with him and cried,
“That is the true bride!” The step-mother and the two sisters were
terrified and became pale with rage; he, however, took Cinderella on
his horse and rode away with her. As they passed by the hazel-tree, the
two white doves cried—

“Turn and peep, turn and peep,
No blood is in the shoe,
The shoe is not too small for her,
The true bride rides with you,”

and when they had cried that, the two came flying down and placed
themselves on Cinderella’s shoulders, one on the right, the other on
the left, and remained sitting there.

When the wedding with the King’s son had to be celebrated, the two
false sisters came and wanted to get into favour with Cinderella and
share her good fortune. When the betrothed couple went to church, the
elder was at the right side and the younger at the left, and the
pigeons pecked out one eye of each of them. Afterwards as they came
back, the elder was at the left, and the younger at the right, and then
the pigeons pecked out the other eye of each. And thus, for their
wickedness and falsehood, they were punished with blindness as long as
they lived.

22 The Riddle