When she knew the answer to the riddle she wanted to steal away, but he
held her mantle so fast that she was forced to leave it behind her.
Next morning, the King’s daughter announced that she had guessed the
riddle, and sent for the twelve judges and expounded it before them.
But the youth begged for a hearing, and said, “She stole into my room
in the night and questioned me, otherwise she could not have discovered
it.” The judges said, “Bring us a proof of this.” Then were the three
mantles brought thither by the servant, and when the judges saw the
misty-grey one which the King’s daughter usually wore, they said, “Let
the mantle be embroidered with gold and silver, and then it will be
your wedding-mantle.

23 The Mouse, the Bird, and the Sausage

Once on a time a mouse, a bird, and a sausage became companions, kept
house together, lived well and happily with each other, and wonderfully
increased their possessions. The bird’s work was to fly every day into
the forest and bring back wood. The mouse had to carry water, light the
fire, and lay the table, but the sausage had to cook.

He who is too well off is always longing for something new. One day,
therefore, the bird met with another bird, on the way, to whom it
related its excellent circumstances and boasted of them. The other
bird, however, called it a poor simpleton for his hard work, but said
that the two at home had good times. For when the mouse had made her
fire and carried her water, she went into her little room to rest until
they called her to lay the table. The sausage stayed by the pot, saw
that the food was cooking well, and, when it was nearly time for
dinner, it rolled itself once or twice through the broth or vegetables
and then they were buttered, salted, and ready. When the bird came home
and laid his burden down, they sat down to dinner, and after they had
had their meal, they slept their fill till next morning, and that was a
splendid life.

Next day the bird, prompted by the other bird, would go no more into
the wood, saying that he had been servant long enough, and had been
made a fool of by them, and that they must change about for once, and
try to arrange it in another way. And, though the mouse and the sausage
also begged most earnestly, the bird would have his way, and said it
must be tried. They cast lots about it, and the lot fell on the sausage
who was to carry wood, the mouse became cook, and the bird was to fetch
water.