So the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do; and in
the sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the shuttle.
She lost her senses; and when she awoke and came to herself again, she
was in a lovely meadow where the sun was shining and many thousands of
flowers were growing. Along this meadow she went, and at last came to a
baker’s oven full of bread, and the bread cried out, “Oh, take me out!
take me out! or I shall burn; I have been baked a long time!” So she
went up to it, and took out all the loaves one after another with the
bread-shovel. After that she went on till she came to a tree covered
with apples, which called out to her, “Oh, shake me! shake me! we
apples are all ripe!” So she shook the tree till the apples fell like
rain, and went on shaking till they were all down, and when she had
gathered them into a heap, she went on her way.

At last she came to a little house, out of which an old woman peeped;
but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened, and was
about to run away.

But the old woman called out to her, “What are you afraid of, dear
child? Stay with me; if you will do all the work in the house properly,
you shall be the better for it. Only you must take care to make my bed
well, and shake it thoroughly till the feathers fly—for then there is
snow on the earth. I am Mother Holle.

As the old woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took courage and
agreed to enter her service. She attended to everything to the
satisfaction of her mistress, and always shook her bed so vigorously
that the feathers flew about like snow-flakes. So she had a pleasant
life with her; never an angry word; and boiled or roast meat every day.

She stayed some time with Mother Holle, and then she became sad. At
first she did not know what was the matter with her, but found at
length that it was home-sickness: although she was many thousand times
better off here than at home, still she had a longing to be there. At
last she said to the old woman, “I have a longing for home; and however
well off I am down here, I cannot stay any longer; I must go up again
to my own people.” Mother Holle said, “I am pleased that you long for
your home again, and as you have served me so truly, I myself will take
you up again.” Thereupon she took her by the hand, and led her to a
large door. The door was opened, and just as the maiden was standing
beneath the doorway, a heavy shower of golden rain fell, and all the
gold remained sticking to her, so that she was completely covered over
with it.