Before long they came to a cat, sitting on the path, with a face like
three rainy days! “Now then, old shaver, what has gone askew with you?”
asked the donkey.

“Who can be merry when his neck is in danger?” answered the cat.
“Because I am now getting old, and my teeth are worn to stumps, and I
prefer to sit by the fire and spin, rather than hunt about after mice,
my mistress wanted to drown me, so I ran away. But now good advice is
scarce. Where am I to go?”

“Go with us to Bremen. You understand night-music, you can be a
town-musician.”

The cat thought well of it, and went with them. After this the three
fugitives came to a farm-yard, where the cock was sitting upon the
gate, crowing with all his might. “Your crow goes through and through
one,” said the donkey. “What is the matter?”

“I have been foretelling fine weather, because it is the day on which
Our Lady washes the Christ-child’s little shirts, and wants to dry
them,” said the cock; “but guests are coming for Sunday, so the
housewife has no pity, and has told the cook that she intends to eat me
in the soup to-morrow, and this evening I am to have my head cut off.
Now I am crowing at full pitch while I can.”

“Ah, but red-comb,” said the donkey, “you had better come away with us.
We are going to Bremen; you can find something better than death
everywhere: you have a good voice, and if we make music together it
must have some quality!”

The cock agreed to this plan, and all four went on together. They could
not, however, reach the city of Bremen in one day, and in the evening
they came to a forest where they meant to pass the night. The donkey
and the hound laid themselves down under a large tree, the cat and the
cock settled themselves in the branches; but the cock flew right to the
top, where he was most safe. Before he went to sleep he looked round on
all four sides, and thought he saw in the distance a little spark
burning; so he called out to his companions that there must be a house
not far off, for he saw a light. The donkey said, “If so, we had better
get up and go on, for the shelter here is bad.” The hound thought that
a few bones with some meat on would do him good too!

So they made their way to the place where the light was, and soon saw
it shine brighter and grow larger, until they came to a well-lighted
robber’s house. The donkey, as the biggest, went to the window and
looked in.