“What do you see, my grey-horse?” asked the cock. “What do I see?”
answered the donkey; “a table covered with good things to eat and
drink, and robbers sitting at it enjoying themselves.” “That would be
the sort of thing for us,” said the cock. “Yes, yes; ah, how I wish we
were there!” said the donkey.

Then the animals took counsel together how they should manage to drive
away the robbers, and at last they thought of a plan. The donkey was to
place himself with his fore-feet upon the window-ledge, the hound was
to jump on the donkey’s back, the cat was to climb upon the dog, and
lastly the cock was to fly up and perch upon the head of the cat.

When this was done, at a given signal, they began to perform their
music together: the donkey brayed, the hound barked, the cat mewed, and
the cock crowed; then they burst through the window into the room, so
that the glass clattered! At this horrible din, the robbers sprang up,
thinking no otherwise than that a ghost had come in, and fled in a
great fright out into the forest. The four companions now sat down at
the table, well content with what was left, and ate as if they were
going to fast for a month.

As soon as the four minstrels had done, they put out the light, and
each sought for himself a sleeping-place according to his nature and to
what suited him. The donkey laid himself down upon some straw in the
yard, the hound behind the door, the cat upon the hearth near the warm
ashes, and the cock perched himself upon a beam of the roof; and being
tired from their long walk, they soon went to sleep.

When it was past midnight, and the robbers saw from afar that the light
was no longer burning in their house, and all appeared quiet, the
captain said, “We ought not to have let ourselves be frightened out of
our wits;” and ordered one of them to go and examine the house.

The messenger finding all still, went into the kitchen to light a
candle, and, taking the glistening fiery eyes of the cat for live
coals, he held a lucifer-match to them to light it. But the cat did not
understand the joke, and flew in his face, spitting and scratching. He
was dreadfully frightened, and ran to the back-door, but the dog, who
lay there sprang up and bit his leg; and as he ran across the yard by
the straw-heap, the donkey gave him a smart kick with its hind foot.
The cock, too, who had been awakened by the noise, and had become
lively, cried down from the beam, “Cock-a-doodle-doo!”