Then the robber ran back as fast as he could to his captain, and said,
“Ah, there is a horrible witch sitting in the house, who spat on me and
scratched my face with her long claws; and by the door stands a man
with a knife, who stabbed me in the leg; and in the yard there lies a
black monster, who beat me with a wooden club; and above, upon the
roof, sits the judge, who called out, ‘Bring the rogue here to me!’ so
I got away as well as I could.”

After this the robbers did not trust themselves in the house again; but
it suited the four musicians of Bremen so well that they did not care
to leave it any more. And the mouth of him who last told this story is
still warm.

28 The Singing Bone

In a certain country there was once great lamentation over a wild boar
that laid waste the farmer’s fields, killed the cattle, and ripped up
people’s bodies with his tusks. The King promised a large reward to
anyone who would free the land from this plague; but the beast was so
big and strong that no one dared to go near the forest in which it
lived. At last the King gave notice that whosoever should capture or
kill the wild boar should have his only daughter to wife.

Now there lived in the country two brothers, sons of a poor man, who
declared themselves willing to undertake the hazardous enterprise; the
elder, who was crafty and shrewd, out of pride; the younger, who was
innocent and simple, from a kind heart. The King said, “In order that
you may be the more sure of finding the beast, you must go into the
forest from opposite sides.” So the elder went in on the west side, and
the younger on the east.

When the younger had gone a short way, a little man stepped up to him.
He held in his hand a black spear and said, “I give you this spear
because your heart is pure and good; with this you can boldly attack
the wild boar, and it will do you no harm.”

He thanked the little man, shouldered the spear, and went on
fearlessly.

Before long he saw the beast, which rushed at him; but he held the
spear towards it, and in its blind fury it ran so swiftly against it
that its heart was cloven in twain. Then he took the monster on his
back and went homewards with it to the King.