So the Queen gave him the letter, and said that he might see for
himself what was written in it. The King read the letter and saw quite
well that it had been exchanged for the other. He asked the youth what
had become of the letter entrusted to him, and why he had brought
another instead of it. “I know nothing about it,” answered he; “it must
have been changed in the night, when I slept in the forest.” The King
said in a passion, “You shall not have everything quite so much your
own way; whosoever marries my daughter must fetch me from hell three
golden hairs from the head of the devil; bring me what I want, and you
shall keep my daughter.” In this way the King hoped to be rid of him
for ever. But the luck-child answered, “I will fetch the golden hairs,
I am not afraid of the Devil;” thereupon he took leave of them and
began his journey.

The road led him to a large town, where the watchman by the gates asked
him what his trade was, and what he knew. “I know everything,” answered
the luck-child. “Then you can do us a favour,” said the watchman, “if
you will tell us why our market-fountain, which once flowed with wine
has become dry, and no longer gives even water?” “That you shall know,”
answered he; “only wait until I come back.”

Then he went farther and came to another town, and there also the
gatekeeper asked him what was his trade, and what he knew. “I know
everything,” answered he. “Then you can do us a favour and tell us why
a tree in our town which once bore golden apples now does not even put
forth leaves?” “You shall know that,” answered he; “only wait until I
come back.”

Then he went on and came to a wide river over which he must go. The
ferryman asked him what his trade was, and what he knew. “I know
everything,” answered he. “Then you can do me a favour,” said the
ferryman, “and tell me why I must always be rowing backwards and
forwards, and am never set free?” “You shall know that,” answered he;
“only wait until I come back.”

When he had crossed the water he found the entrance to Hell. It was
black and sooty within, and the Devil was not at home, but his
grandmother was sitting in a large arm-chair. “What do you want?” said
she to him, but she did not look so very wicked. “I should like to have
three golden hairs from the devil’s head,” answered he, “else I cannot
keep my wife.” “That is a good deal to ask for,” said she; “if the
devil comes home and finds you, it will cost you your life; but as I
pity you, I will see if I cannot help you.”