She changed him into an ant and said, “Creep into the folds of my
dress, you will be safe there.” “Yes,” answered he, “so far, so good;
but there are three things besides that I want to know: why a fountain
which once flowed with wine has become dry, and no longer gives even
water; why a tree which once bore golden apples does not even put forth
leaves; and why a ferry-man must always be going backwards and
forwards, and is never set free?”

“Those are difficult questions,” answered she, “but only be silent and
quiet and pay attention to what the devil says when I pull out the
three golden hairs.”

As the evening came on, the devil returned home. No sooner had he
entered than he noticed that the air was not pure. “I smell man’s
flesh,” said he; “all is not right here.” Then he pried into every
corner, and searched, but could not find anything. His grandmother
scolded him. “It has just been swept,” said she, “and everything put in
order, and now you are upsetting it again; you have always got man’s
flesh in your nose. Sit down and eat your supper.”

When he had eaten and drunk he was tired, and laid his head in his
grandmother’s lap, and before long he was fast asleep, snoring and
breathing heavily. Then the old woman took hold of a golden hair,
pulled it out, and laid it down near her. “Oh!” cried the devil, “what
are you doing?” “I have had a bad dream,” answered the grandmother, “so
I seized hold of your hair.” “What did you dream then?” said the devil.
“I dreamed that a fountain in a market-place from which wine once
flowed was dried up, and not even water would flow out of it; what is
the cause of it?” “Oh, ho! if they did but know it,” answered the
devil; “there is a toad sitting under a stone in the well; if they
killed it, the wine would flow again.”

He went to sleep again and snored until the windows shook. Then she
pulled the second hair out. “Ha! what are you doing?” cried the devil
angrily. “Do not take it ill,” said she, “I did it in a dream.” “What
have you dreamt this time?” asked he. “I dreamt that in a certain
kingdom there stood an apple-tree which had once borne golden apples,
but now would not even bear leaves. What, think you, was the reason?”
“Oh! if they did but know,” answered the devil. “A mouse is gnawing at
the root; if they killed this they would have golden apples again, but
if it gnaws much longer the tree will wither altogether. But leave me
alone with your dreams: if you disturb me in my sleep again you will
get a box on the ear.”