The grandmother spoke gently to him until he fell asleep again and
snored. Then she took hold of the third golden hair and pulled it out.
The devil jumped up, roared out, and would have treated her ill if she
had not quieted him once more and said, “Who can help bad dreams?”
“What was the dream, then?” asked he, and was quite curious. “I dreamt
of a ferry-man who complained that he must always ferry from one side
to the other, and was never released. What is the cause of it?” “Ah!
the fool,” answered the devil; “when any one comes and wants to go
across he must put the oar in his hand, and the other man will have to
ferry and he will be free.” As the grandmother had plucked out the
three golden hairs, and the three questions were answered, she let the
old serpent alone, and he slept until daybreak.

When the devil had gone out again the old woman took the ant out of the
folds of her dress, and gave the luck-child his human shape again.
“There are the three golden hairs for you,” said she. “What the Devil
said to your three questions, I suppose you heard?” “Yes,” answered he,
“I heard, and will take care to remember.” “You have what you want,”
said she, “and now you can go your way.” He thanked the old woman for
helping him in his need, and left hell well content that everything had
turned out so fortunately.

When he came to the ferry-man he was expected to give the promised
answer. “Ferry me across first,” said the luck-child, “and then I will
tell you how you can be set free,” and when he reached the opposite
shore he gave him the devil’s advice: “Next time any one comes, who
wants to be ferried over, just put the oar in his hand.”

He went on and came to the town wherein stood the unfruitful tree, and
there too the watchman wanted an answer. So he told him what he had
heard from the devil: “Kill the mouse which is gnawing at its root, and
it will again bear golden apples.” Then the watchman thanked him, and
gave him as a reward two asses laden with gold, which followed him.

At last he came to the town whose well was dry. He told the watchman
what the devil had said: “A toad is in the well beneath a stone; you
must find it and kill it, and the well will again give wine in plenty.”
The watchman thanked him, and also gave him two asses laden with gold.