At last the luck-child got home to his wife, who was heartily glad to
see him again, and to hear how well he had prospered in everything. To
the King he took what he had asked for, the devil’s three golden hairs,
and when the King saw the four asses laden with gold he was quite
content, and said, “Now all the conditions are fulfilled, and you can
keep my daughter. But tell me, dear son-in-law, where did all that gold
come from? this is tremendous wealth!” “I was rowed across a river,”
answered he, “and got it there; it lies on the shore instead of sand.”
“Can I too fetch some of it?” said the King; and he was quite eager
about it. “As much as you like,” answered he. “There is a ferry-man on
the river; let him ferry you over, and you can fill your sacks on the
other side.” The greedy King set out in all haste, and when he came to
the river he beckoned to the ferry-man to put him across. The ferry-man
came and bade him get in, and when they got to the other shore he put
the oar in his hand and sprang out. But from this time forth the King
had to ferry, as a punishment for his sins. Perhaps he is ferrying
still? If he is, it is because no one has taken the oar from him.

30 The Louse and the Flea

A louse and a flea kept house together and were brewing beer in an
egg-shell. Then the little louse fell in and burnt herself. On this the
little flea began to scream loudly. Then said the little room-door,
“Little flea, why art thou screaming?” “Because the louse has burnt
herself.”

Then the little door began to creak. On this a little broom in the
corner said, “Why art thou creaking, little door?” “Have I not reason
to creak?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping.”

So the little broom began to sweep frantically. Then a little cart
passed by and said, “Why art thou sweeping, little broom?” “Have I not
reason to sweep?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking.”

So the little cart said, “Then I will run,” and began to run wildly.
Then said the ash-heap by which it ran, “Why art thou running so,
little cart?” “Have I not reason to run?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking,
The little broom is sweeping.”

The ash-heap said, “Then I will burn furiously,” and began to burn in
clear flames. A little tree stood near the ash-heap and said,
“Ash-heap, why art thou burning?” “Have I not reason to burn?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking,
The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running.”