The little tree said, “Then I will shake myself,” and began to shake
herself so that all her leaves fell off; a girl who came up with her
water-pitcher saw that, and said, “Little tree, why art thou shaking
thyself?” “Have I not reason to shake myself?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking,
The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running,
The little ash-heap is burning.”

On this the girl said, “Then I will break my little water-pitcher,” and
she broke her little water-pitcher. Then said the little spring from
which ran the water, “Girl, why art thou breaking thy water-jug?” “Have
I not reason to break my water-jug?”

“The little louse has burnt herself,
The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking,
The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running,
The little ash-heap is burning,
The little tree is shaking itself.”

“Oh, ho!” said the spring, “then I will begin to flow,” and began to
flow violently. And in the water everything was drowned, the girl, the
little tree, the little ash-heap, the little cart, the broom, the
little door, the little flea, the little louse, all together.

31 The Girl Without Hands

A certain miller had little by little fallen into poverty, and had
nothing left but his mill and a large apple-tree behind it. Once when
he had gone into the forest to fetch wood, an old man stepped up to him
whom he had never seen before, and said, “Why dost thou plague thyself
with cutting wood, I will make thee rich, if thou wilt promise me what
is standing behind thy mill?” “What can that be but my apple-tree?”
thought the miller, and said, “Yes,” and gave a written promise to the
stranger. He, however, laughed mockingly and said, “When three years
have passed, I will come and carry away what belongs to me,” and then
he went. When the miller got home, his wife came to meet him and said,
“Tell me, miller, from whence comes this sudden wealth into our house?
All at once every box and chest was filled; no one brought it in, and I
know not how it happened.” He answered, “It comes from a stranger who
met me in the forest, and promised me great treasure. I, in return,
have promised him what stands behind the mill; we can very well give
him the big apple-tree for it.” “Ah, husband,” said the terrified wife,
“that must have been the devil! He did not mean the apple-tree, but our
daughter, who was standing behind the mill sweeping the yard.”