When it grew dark the King came into the garden and brought a priest
with him, who was to speak to the spirit. All three seated themselves
beneath the tree and watched. At midnight the maiden came creeping out
of the thicket, went to the tree, and again ate one pear off it with
her mouth, and beside her stood the angel in white garments. Then the
priest went out to them and said, “Comest thou from heaven or from
earth? Art thou a spirit, or a human being?” She replied, “I am no
spirit, but an unhappy mortal deserted by all but God.” The King said,
“If thou art forsaken by all the world, yet will I not forsake thee.”
He took her with him into his royal palace, and as she was so beautiful
and good, he loved her with all his heart, had silver hands made for
her, and took her to wife.

After a year the King had to take the field, so he commended his young
Queen to the care of his mother and said, “If she is brought to bed
take care of her, nurse her well, and tell me of it at once in a
letter.” Then she gave birth to a fine boy. So the old mother made
haste to write and announce the joyful news to him. But the messenger
rested by a brook on the way, and as he was fatigued by the great
distance, he fell asleep. Then came the Devil, who was always seeking
to injure the good Queen, and exchanged the letter for another, in
which was written that the Queen had brought a monster into the world.
When the King read the letter he was shocked and much troubled, but he
wrote in answer that they were to take great care of the Queen and
nurse her well until his arrival. The messenger went back with the
letter, but rested at the same place and again fell asleep. Then came
the Devil once more, and put a different letter in his pocket, in which
it was written that they were to put the Queen and her child to death.
The old mother was terribly shocked when she received the letter, and
could not believe it. She wrote back again to the King, but received no
other answer, because each time the Devil substituted a false letter,
and in the last letter it was also written that she was to preserve the
Queen’s tongue and eyes as a token that she had obeyed.