But the old mother wept to think such innocent blood was to be shed,
and had a hind brought by night and cut out her tongue and eyes, and
kept them. Then said she to the Queen, “I cannot have thee killed as
the King commands, but here thou mayst stay no longer. Go forth into
the wide world with thy child, and never come here again.” The poor
woman tied her child on her back, and went away with eyes full of
tears. She came into a great wild forest, and then she fell on her
knees and prayed to God, and the angel of the Lord appeared to her and
led her to a little house on which was a sign with the words, “Here all
dwell free.” A snow-white maiden came out of the little house and said,
“Welcome, Lady Queen,” and conducted her inside. Then they unbound the
little boy from her back, and held him to her breast that he might
feed, and laid him in a beautifully-made little bed. Then said the poor
woman, “From whence knowest thou that I was a queen?” The white maiden
answered, “I am an angel sent by God, to watch over thee and thy
child.” The Queen stayed seven years in the little house, and was well
cared for, and by God’s grace, because of her piety, her hands which
had been cut off, grew once more.

At last the King came home again from the war, and his first wish was
to see his wife and the child. Then his aged mother began to weep and
said, “Thou wicked man, why didst thou write to me that I was to take
those two innocent lives?” and she showed him the two letters which the
Evil-one had forged, and then continued, “I did as thou badest me,” and
she showed the tokens, the tongue and eyes. Then the King began to weep
for his poor wife and his little son so much more bitterly than she was
doing, that the aged mother had compassion on him and said, “Be at
peace, she still lives; I secretly caused a hind to be killed, and took
these tokens from it; but I bound the child to thy wife’s back and bade
her go forth into the wide world, and made her promise never to come
back here again, because thou wert so angry with her.” Then spoke the
King, “I will go as far as the sky is blue, and will neither eat nor
drink until I have found again my dear wife and my child, if in the
meantime they have not been killed, or died of hunger.”