After some time he took it into his head that he would travel to Rome.
On the way he passed by a marsh, in which a number of frogs were
sitting croaking. He listened to them, and when he became aware of what
they were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad. At last he arrived
in Rome, where the Pope had just died, and there was great difficulty
as to whom they should appoint as his successor. They at length agreed
that the person should be chosen as pope who should be distinguished by
some divine and miraculous token. And just as that was decided on, the
young count entered into the church, and suddenly two snow-white doves
flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there. The ecclesiastics
recognized therein the token from above, and asked him on the spot if
he would be pope. He was undecided, and knew not if he were worthy of
this, but the doves counselled him to do it, and at length he said yes.
Then was he anointed and consecrated, and thus was fulfilled what he
had heard from the frogs on his way, which had so affected him, that he
was to be his Holiness the Pope. Then he had to sing a mass, and did
not know one word of it, but the two doves sat continually on his
shoulders, and said it all in his ear.

34 Clever Elsie

There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.
And when she had grown up her father said, “We will get her married.”
“Yes,” said the mother; “if only any one would come who would have
her.” At length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was
called Hans; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really wise.
“Oh,” said the father, “she’s sharp enough;” and the mother said, “Oh,
she can see the wind coming up the street, and hear the flies
coughing.” “Well,” said Hans, “if she is not really wise, I won’t have
her.” When they were sitting at dinner and had eaten, the mother said,
“Elsie, go into the cellar and fetch some beer.” Then Clever Elsie took
the pitcher from the wall, went into the cellar, and tapped the lid
briskly as she went, so that the time might not appear long. When she
was below she fetched herself a chair, and set it before the barrel so
that she had no need to stoop, and did not hurt her back or do herself
any unexpected injury. Then she placed the can before her, and turned
the tap, and while the beer was running she would not let her eyes be
idle, but looked up at the wall, and after much peering here and there,
saw a pick-axe exactly above her, which the masons had accidentally
left there.