“What do I hear?” cried the tailor, and ran upstairs and said to the
youth, “Hollo, thou liar: thou saidest the goat had had enough, and
hast let her hunger!” and in his anger he took the yard-measure from
the wall, and drove him out with blows.

Next day it was the turn of the second son, who looked out for a place
in the fence of the garden, where nothing but good herbs grew, and the
goat cleared them all off. At night when he wanted to go home, he
asked, “Goat, art thou satisfied?” The goat answered,

“I have eaten so much,
Not a leaf more I’ll touch, meh! meh!”

“Come home, then,” said the youth, and led her home, and tied her up in
the stable. “Well,” said the old tailor, “has the goat had as much food
as she ought?” “Oh,” answered the son, “she has eaten so much, not a
leaf more she’ll touch.” The tailor would not rely on this, but went
down to the stable and said, “Goat, hast thou had enough?” The goat
answered,

“Wherewithal should I be satisfied?
Among the graves I leapt about,
And found no food, so went without, meh! meh!”

“The godless wretch!” cried the tailor, “to let such a good animal
hunger,” and he ran up and drove the youth out of doors with the
yard-measure.

Now came the turn of the third son, who wanted to do the thing well,
and sought out some bushes with the finest leaves, and let the goat
devour them. In the evening when he wanted to go home, he asked, “Goat,
hast thou had enough?” The goat answered,

“I have eaten so much,
Not a leaf more I’ll touch, meh! meh!”

“Come home, then,” said the youth, and led her into the stable, and
tied her up. “Well,” said the old tailor, “has the goat had a proper
amount of food?” “She has eaten so much, not a leaf more she’ll touch.”
The tailor did not trust to that, but went down and asked, “Goat, hast
thou had enough?” The wicked beast answered,

“Wherewithal should I be satisfied?
Among the graves I leapt about,
And found no leaves, so went without, meh! meh!”

“Oh, the brood of liars!” cried the tailor, “each as wicked and
forgetful of his duty as the other! Ye shall no longer make a fool of
me,” and quite beside himself with anger, he ran upstairs and belabored
the poor young fellow so vigorously with the yard-measure that he
sprang out of the house.