“Turn back, turn back, young maiden dear,
’Tis a murderer’s house you enter here.”

The maiden looked up, and saw that the voice came from a bird, which
was hanging in a cage on the wall. Again it cried,

“Turn back, turn back, young maiden dear,
’Tis a murderer’s house you enter here.”

Then the young maiden went on farther from one room to another, and
walked through the whole house, but it was entirely empty and not one
human being was to be found. At last she came to the the cellar, and
there sat an extremely aged woman, whose head shook constantly. “Can
you not tell me,” said the maiden, “if my betrothed lives here?”

“Alas, poor child,” replied the old woman, “whither hast thou come?
Thou art in a murderer’s den. Thou thinkest thou art a bride soon to be
married, but thou wilt keep thy wedding with death. Look, I have been
forced to put a great kettle on there, with water in it, and when they
have thee in their power, they will cut thee to pieces without mercy,
will cook thee, and eat thee, for they are eaters of human flesh. If I
do not have compassion on thee, and save thee, thou art lost.”

Thereupon the old woman led her behind a great hogshead where she could
not be seen. “Be as still as a mouse,” said she, “do not make a sound,
or move, or all will be over with thee. At night, when the robbers are
asleep, we will escape; I have long waited for an opportunity.” Hardly
was this done, than the godless crew came home. They dragged with them
another young girl. They were drunk, and paid no heed to her screams
and lamentations. They gave her wine to drink, three glasses full, one
glass of white wine, one glass of red, and a glass of yellow, and with
this her heart burst in twain. Thereupon they tore off her delicate
raiment, laid her on a table, cut her beautiful body in pieces and
strewed salt thereon. The poor bride behind the cask trembled and
shook, for she saw right well what fate the robbers had destined for
her. One of them noticed a gold ring on the little finger of the
murdered girl, and as it would not come off at once, he took an axe and
cut the finger off, but it sprang up in the air, away over the cask and
fell straight into the bride’s bosom. The robber took a candle and
wanted to look for it, but could not find it. Then another of them
said, “Hast thou looked behind the great hogshead?” But the old woman
cried, “Come and get something to eat, and leave off looking till the
morning, the finger won’t run away from you.”