The little tailor, however, would not stay any longer in a house where
he fared so ill, so at once set out on his journey again. But his
liberty did not last long. In the open country he met with a fox who
snapped him up in a fit of absence. “Hollo, Mr. Fox,” cried the little
tailor, “it is I who am sticking in your throat, set me at liberty
again.” “Thou art right,” answered the fox. “Thou art next to nothing
for me, but if thou wilt promise me the fowls in thy father’s yard I
will let thee go.” “With all my heart,” replied Thumbling. “Thou shalt
have all the cocks and hens, that I promise thee.” Then the fox let him
go again, and himself carried him home. When the father once more saw
his dear son, he willingly gave the fox all the fowls which he had.
“For this I likewise bring thee a handsome bit of money,” said
Thumbling, and gave his father the kreuzer which he earned on his
travels.

“But why did the fox get the poor chickens to eat?” “Oh, you goose,
your father would surely love his child far more than the fowls in the
yard!”

46 Fitcher’s Bird

There was once a wizard who used to take the form of a poor man, and
went to houses and begged, and caught pretty girls. No one knew whither
he carried them, for they were never seen more. One day he appeared
before the door of a man who had three pretty daughters; he looked like
a poor weak beggar, and carried a basket on his back, as if he meant to
collect charitable gifts in it. He begged for a little food, and when
the eldest daughter came out and was just reaching him a piece of
bread, he did but touch her, and she was forced to jump into his
basket. Thereupon he hurried away with long strides, and carried her
away into a dark forest to his house, which stood in the midst of it.
Everything in the house was magnificent; he gave her whatsoever she
could possibly desire, and said, “My darling, thou wilt certainly be
happy with me, for thou hast everything thy heart can wish for.” This
lasted a few days, and then he said, “I must journey forth, and leave
thee alone for a short time; there are the keys of the house; thou
mayst go everywhere and look at everything except into one room, which
this little key here opens, and there I forbid thee to go on pain of
death.” He likewise gave her an egg and said, “Preserve the egg
carefully for me, and carry it continually about with thee, for a great
misfortune would arise from the loss of it.”