“Now I will fetch myself the second,” said the wizard, and again he
went to the house in the shape of a poor man, and begged. Then the
second daughter brought him a piece of bread; he caught her like the
first, by simply touching her, and carried her away. She did not fare
better than her sister. She allowed herself to be led away by her
curiosity, opened the door of the bloody chamber, looked in, and had to
atone for it with her life on the wizard’s return. Then he went and
brought the third sister, but she was clever and crafty. When he had
given her the keys and the egg, and had left her, she first put the egg
away with great care, and then she examined the house, and at last went
into the forbidden room. Alas, what did she behold! Both her sisters
lay there in the basin, cruelly murdered, and cut in pieces. But she
began to gather their limbs together and put them in order, head, body,
arms and legs. And when nothing further was wanting the limbs began to
move and unite themselves together, and both the maidens opened their
eyes and were once more alive. Then they rejoiced and kissed and
caressed each other.

On his arrival, the man at once demanded the keys and the egg, and as
he could perceive no trace of any blood on it, he said, “Thou hast
stood the test, thou shalt be my bride.” He now had no longer any power
over her, and was forced to do whatsoever she desired. “Oh, very well,”
said she, “thou shalt first take a basketful of gold to my father and
mother, and carry it thyself on thy back; in the meantime I will
prepare for the wedding.” Then she ran to her sisters, whom she had
hidden in a little chamber, and said, “The moment has come when I can
save you. The wretch shall himself carry you home again, but as soon as
you are at home send help to me.” She put both of them in a basket and
covered them quite over with gold, so that nothing of them was to be
seen, then she called in the wizard and said to him, “Now carry the
basket away, but I shall look through my little window and watch to see
if thou stoppest on the way to stand or to rest.”