The wizard raised the basket on his back and went away with it, but it
weighed him down so heavily that the perspiration streamed from his
face. Then he sat down and wanted to rest awhile, but immediately one
of the girls in the basket cried, “I am looking through my little
window, and I see that thou art resting. Wilt thou go on at once?” He
thought it was his bride who was calling that to him; and got up on his
legs again. Once more he was going to sit down, but instantly she
cried, “I am looking through my little window, and I see that thou art
resting. Wilt thou go on directly?” And whenever he stood still, she
cried this, and then he was forced to go onwards, until at last,
groaning and out of breath, he took the basket with the gold and the
two maidens into their parents’ house. At home, however, the bride
prepared the marriage-feast, and sent invitations to the friends of the
wizard. Then she took a skull with grinning teeth, put some ornaments
on it and a wreath of flowers, carried it upstairs to the
garret-window, and let it look out from thence. When all was ready, she
got into a barrel of honey, and then cut the feather-bed open and
rolled herself in it, until she looked like a wondrous bird, and no one
could recognize her. Then she went out of the house, and on her way she
met some of the wedding-guests, who asked,

“O, Fitcher’s bird, how com’st thou here?”
“I come from Fitcher’s house quite near.”
“And what may the young bride be doing?”
“From cellar to garret she’s swept all clean,
And now from the window she’s peeping, I ween.”

At last she met the bridegroom, who was coming slowly back. He, like
the others, asked,

“O, Fitcher’s bird, how com’st thou here?”
“I come from Fitcher’s house quite near.”
“And what may the young bride be doing?
“From cellar to garret she’s swept all clean,
And now from the window she’s peeping, I ween.”

The bridegroom looked up, saw the decked-out skull, thought it was his
bride, and nodded to her, greeting her kindly. But when he and his
guests had all gone into the house, the brothers and kinsmen of the
bride, who had been sent to rescue her, arrived. They locked all the
doors of the house, that no one might escape, set fire to it, and the
wizard and all his crew had to burn.

47 The Juniper-Tree