The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a gold chain, when he
heard the bird which was sitting singing on his roof, and very
beautiful the song seemed to him. He stood up, but as he crossed the
threshold he lost one of his slippers. But he went away right up the
middle of the street with one shoe on and one sock; he had his apron
on, and in one hand he had the gold chain and in the other the pincers,
and the sun was shining brightly on the street. Then he went right on
and stood still, and said to the bird, “Bird,” said he then, “how
beautifully thou canst sing! Sing me that piece again.” “No,” said the
bird, “I’ll not sing it twice for nothing! Give me the golden chain,
and then I will sing it again for thee.” “There,” said the goldsmith,
“there is the golden chain for thee, now sing me that song again.” Then
the bird came and took the golden chain in his right claw, and went and
sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang,

“My mother she killed me,
My father he ate me,
My sister, little Marlinchen,
Gathered together all my bones,
Tied them in a silken handkerchief,
Laid them beneath the juniper-tree,
Kywitt, kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!”

Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lighted on his roof and
sang,

“My mother she killed me,
My father he ate me,
My sister, little Marlinchen,
Gathered together all my bones,
Tied them in a silken handkerchief,
Laid them beneath the juniper-tree,
Kywitt, kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!”

The shoemaker heard that and ran out of doors in his shirt sleeves, and
looked up at his roof, and was forced to hold his hand before his eyes
lest the sun should blind him. “Bird,” said he, “how beautifully thou
canst sing!” Then he called in at his door, “Wife, just come outside,
there is a bird, look at that bird, he just can sing well.” Then he
called his daughter and children, and apprentices, boys and girls, and
they all came up the street and looked at the bird and saw how
beautiful he was, and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how
like real gold his neck was, and how the eyes in his head shone like
stars. “Bird,” said the shoemaker, “now sing me that song again.”
“Nay,” said the bird, “I do not sing twice for nothing; thou must give
me something.” “Wife,” said the man, “go to the garret, upon the top
shelf there stands a pair of red shoes, bring them down.” Then the wife
went and brought the shoes. “There, bird,” said the man, “now sing me
that piece again.” Then the bird came and took the shoes in his left
claw, and flew back on the roof, and sang,