In the room sat the father, the mother, and Marlinchen at dinner, and
the father said, “How light-hearted I feel, how happy I am!” “Nay,”
said the mother, “I feel so uneasy, just as if a heavy storm were
coming.” Marlinchen, however, sat weeping and weeping, and then came
the bird flying, and as it seated itself on the roof the father said,
“Ah, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully
outside, I feel just as if I were about to see some old friend again.”
“Nay,” said the woman, “I feel so anxious, my teeth chatter, and I seem
to have fire in my veins.” And she tore her stays open, but Marlinchen
sat in a corner crying, and held her plate before her eyes and cried
till it was quite wet. Then the bird sat on the juniper tree, and sang,

“My mother she killed me,”

Then the mother stopped her ears, and shut her eyes, and would not see
or hear, but there was a roaring in her ears like the most violent
storm, and her eyes burnt and flashed like lightning,

“My father he ate me,”

“Ah, mother,” says the man, “that is a beautiful bird! He sings so
splendidly, and the sun shines so warm, and there is a smell just like
cinnamon.”

“My sister, little Marlinchen,”

Then Marlinchen laid her head on her knees and wept without ceasing,
but the man said, “I am going out, I must see the bird quite close.”
“Oh, don’t go,” said the woman, “I feel as if the whole house were
shaking and on fire.” But the man went out and looked at the bird:

“Gathered together all my bones,
Tied them in a silken handkerchief,
Laid them beneath the juniper tree,
Kywitt, kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!”

On this the bird let the golden chain fall, and it fell exactly round
the man’s neck, and so exactly round it that it fitted beautifully.
Then he went in and said, “Just look what a fine bird that is, and what
a handsome gold chain he has given me, and how pretty he is!” But the
woman was terrified, and fell down on the floor in the room, and her
cap fell off her head. Then sang the bird once more,

“My mother she killed me.”

“Would that I were a thousand feet beneath the earth so as not to hear
that!”

“My father he ate me,”

Then the woman fell down again as if dead.

“My sister, little Marlinchen,”

“Ah,” said Marlinchen, “I too will go out and see if the bird will give
me anything,” and she went out.

“Gathered together all my bones,
Tied them in a silken handkerchief,”

Then he threw down the shoes to her.

“Laid them beneath the juniper-tree,
Kywitt, kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!”