Then she was light-hearted and joyous, and she put on the new red
shoes, and danced and leaped into the house. “Ah,” said she, “I was so
sad when I went out and now I am so light-hearted; that is a splendid
bird, he has given me a pair of red shoes!” “Well,” said the woman, and
sprang to her feet and her hair stood up like flames of fire, “I feel
as if the world were coming to an end! I, too, will go out and see if
my heart feels lighter.” And as she went out at the door, crash! the
and smoke, flames, and fire were rising from the place, and when that
was over, there stood the little brother, and he took his father and
Marlinchen by the hand, and all three were right glad, and they went
into the house to dinner, and ate.

48 Old Sultan

A farmer once had a faithful dog called Sultan, who had grown old, and
lost all his teeth, so that he could no longer hold anything fast. One
day the farmer was standing with his wife before the house-door, and
said, “To-morrow I intend to shoot Old Sultan, he is no longer of any
use.”

His wife, who felt pity for the faithful beast, answered, “He has
served us so long, and been so faithful, that we might well give him
his keep.”

“Eh! what?” said the man. “You are not very sharp. He has not a tooth
left in his mouth, and not a thief is afraid of him; now he may be off.
If he has served us, he has had good feeding for it.”

The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, had
heard everything, and was sorry that the morrow was to be his last day.
He had a good friend, the wolf, and he crept out in the evening into
the forest to him, and complained of the fate that awaited him. “Hark
ye, gossip,” said the wolf, “be of good cheer, I will help you out of
your trouble. I have thought of something. To-morrow, early in the
morning, your master is going with his wife to make hay, and they will
take their little child with them, for no one will be left behind in
the house. They are wont, during work-time, to lay the child under the
hedge in the shade; you lay yourself there too, just as if you wished
to guard it. Then I will come out of the wood, and carry off the child.
You must rush swiftly after me, as if you would seize it again from me.
I will let it fall, and you will take it back to its parents, who will
think that you have saved it, and will be far too grateful to do you
any harm; on the contrary, you will be in high favor, and they will
never let you want for anything again.”