The plan pleased the dog, and it was carried out just as it was
arranged. The father screamed when he saw the Wolf running across the
field with his child, but when Old Sultan brought it back, then he was
full of joy, and stroked him and said, “Not a hair of yours shall be
hurt, you shall eat my bread free as long as you live.” And to his wife
he said, “Go home at once and make Old Sultan some bread-sop that he
will not have to bite, and bring the pillow out of my bed, I will give
him that to lie upon.”

Henceforth Old Sultan was as well off as he could wish to be.

Soon afterwards the wolf visited him, and was pleased that everything
had succeeded so well. “But, gossip,” said he, “you will just wink an
eye if when I have a chance, I carry off one of your master’s fat
sheep.” “Do not reckon upon that,” answered the dog; “I will remain
true to my master; I cannot agree to that.” The wolf, who thought that
this could not be spoken in earnest, came creeping about in the night
and was going to take away the sheep. But the farmer, to whom the
faithful Sultan had told the wolf’s plan, caught him and dressed his
hide soundly with the flail. The wolf had to pack off, but he cried out
to the dog, “Wait a bit, you scoundrel, you shall pay for this.”

The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to come
out into the forest so that they might settle the affair. Old Sultan
could find no one to stand by him but a cat with only three legs, and
as they went out together the poor cat limped along, and at the same
time stretched out her tail into the air with pain.

The wolf and his friend were already on the spot appointed, but when
they saw their enemy coming they thought that he was bringing a sabre
with him, for they mistook the outstretched tail of the cat for one.
And when the poor beast hopped on its three legs, they could only think
every time that it was picking up a stone to throw at them. So they
were both afraid; the wild boar crept into the under-wood and the wolf
jumped up a tree.