The King, however, had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this
marriage and spoke ill of the young Queen. “Who knows,” said she, “from
whence the creature who can’t speak, comes? She is not worthy of a
king!” After a year had passed, when the Queen brought her first child
into the world, the old woman took it away from her, and smeared her
mouth with blood as she slept. Then she went to the King and accused
the Queen of being a man-eater. The King would not believe it, and
would not suffer any one to do her any injury. She, however, sat
continually sewing at the shirts, and cared for nothing else. The next
time, when she again bore a beautiful boy, the false step-mother used
the same treachery, but the King could not bring himself to give credit
to her words. He said, “She is too pious and good to do anything of
that kind; if she were not dumb, and could defend herself, her
innocence would come to light.” But when the old woman stole away the
newly-born child for the third time, and accused the Queen, who did not
utter one word of defence, the King could do no otherwise than deliver
her over to justice, and she was sentenced to suffer death by fire.

When the day came for the sentence to be executed, it was the last day
of the six years during which she was not to speak or laugh, and she
had delivered her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment. The
six shirts were ready, only the left sleeve of the sixth was wanting.
When, therefore, she was led to the stake, she laid the shirts on her
arm, and when she stood on high and the fire was just going to be
lighted, she looked around and six swans came flying through the air
towards her. Then she saw that her deliverance was near, and her heart
leapt with joy. The swans swept towards her and sank down so that she
could throw the shirts over them, and as they were touched by them,
their swan’s skins fell off, and her brothers stood in their own bodily
form before her, and were vigorous and handsome. The youngest only
lacked his left arm, and had in the place of it a swan’s wing on his
shoulder. They embraced and kissed each other, and the Queen went to
the King, who was greatly moved, and she began to speak and said,
“Dearest husband, now I may speak and declare to thee that I am
innocent, and falsely accused.” And she told him of the treachery of
the old woman who had taken away her three children and hidden them.
Then to the great joy of the King they were brought thither, and as a
punishment, the wicked step-mother was bound to the stake, and burnt to
ashes. But the King and the Queen with their six brothers lived many
years in happiness and peace.

50 Briar-Rose