A long time ago there were a King and Queen who said every day, “Ah, if
only we had a child!” but they never had one. But it happened that once
when the Queen was bathing, a frog crept out of the water on to the
land, and said to her, “Your wish shall be fulfilled; before a year has
gone by, you shall have a daughter.”

What the frog had said came true, and the Queen had a little girl who
was so pretty that the King could not contain himself for joy, and
ordered a great feast. He invited not only his kindred, friends and
acquaintance, but also the Wise Women, in order that they might be kind
and well-disposed towards the child. There were thirteen of them in his
kingdom, but, as he had only twelve golden plates for them to eat out
of, one of them had to be left at home.

The feast was held with all manner of splendour and when it came to an
end the Wise Women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby: one gave
virtue, another beauty, a third riches, and so on with everything in
the world that one can wish for.

When eleven of them had made their promises, suddenly the thirteenth
came in. She wished to avenge herself for not having been invited, and
without greeting, or even looking at any one, she cried with a loud
voice, “The King’s daughter shall in her fifteenth year prick herself
with a spindle, and fall down dead.” And, without saying a word more,
she turned round and left the room.

They were all shocked; but the twelfth, whose good wish still remained
unspoken, came forward, and as she could not undo the evil sentence,
but only soften it, she said, “It shall not be death, but a deep sleep
of a hundred years, into which the princess shall fall.”

The King, who would fain keep his dear child from the misfortune, gave
orders that every spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt.
Meanwhile the gifts of the Wise Women were plenteously fulfilled on the
young girl, for she was so beautiful, modest, good-natured, and wise,
that everyone who saw her was bound to love her.

It happened that on the very day when she was fifteen years old, the
King and Queen were not at home, and the maiden was left in the palace
quite alone. So she went round into all sorts of places, looked into
rooms and bed-chambers just as she liked, and at last came to an old
tower. She climbed up the narrow winding-staircase, and reached a
little door. A rusty key was in the lock, and when she turned it the
door sprang open, and there in a little room sat an old woman with a
spindle, busily spinning her flax.