“Good day, old dame,” said the King’s daughter; “what are you doing
there?” “I am spinning,” said the old woman, and nodded her head. “What
sort of thing is that, that rattles round so merrily?” said the girl,
and she took the spindle and wanted to spin too. But scarcely had she
touched the spindle when the magic decree was fulfilled, and she
pricked her finger with it.

And, in the very moment when she felt the prick, she fell down upon the
bed that stood there, and lay in a deep sleep. And this sleep extended
over the whole palace; the King and Queen who had just come home, and
had entered the great hall, began to go to sleep, and the whole of the
court with them. The horses, too, went to sleep in the stable, the dogs
in the yard, the pigeons upon the roof, the flies on the wall; even the
fire that was flaming on the hearth became quiet and slept, the roast
meat left off frizzling, and the cook, who was just going to pull the
hair of the scullery boy, because he had forgotten something, let him
go, and went to sleep. And the wind fell, and on the trees before the
castle not a leaf moved again.

But round about the castle there began to grow a hedge of thorns, which
every year became higher, and at last grew close up round the castle
and all over it, so that there was nothing of it to be seen, not even
the flag upon the roof. But the story of the beautiful sleeping
“Briar-rose,” for so the princess was named, went about the country, so
that from time to time kings’ sons came and tried to get through the
thorny hedge into the castle.

But they found it impossible, for the thorns held fast together, as if
they had hands, and the youths were caught in them, could not get loose
again, and died a miserable death.

After long, long years a King’s son came again to that country, and
heard an old man talking about the thorn-hedge, and that a castle was
said to stand behind it in which a wonderfully beautiful princess,
named Briar-rose, had been asleep for a hundred years; and that the
King and Queen and the whole court were asleep likewise. He had heard,
too, from his grandfather, that many kings’ sons had already come, and
had tried to get through the thorny hedge, but they had remained
sticking fast in it, and had died a pitiful death. Then the youth said,
“I am not afraid, I will go and see the beautiful Briar-rose.” The good
old man might dissuade him as he would, he did not listen to his words.