But by this time the hundred years had just passed, and the day had
come when Briar-rose was to awake again. When the King’s son came near
to the thorn-hedge, it was nothing but large and beautiful flowers,
which parted from each other of their own accord, and let him pass
unhurt, then they closed again behind him like a hedge. In the
castle-yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying asleep; on
the roof sat the pigeons with their heads under their wings. And when
he entered the house, the flies were asleep upon the wall, the cook in
the kitchen was still holding out his hand to seize the boy, and the
maid was sitting by the black hen which she was going to pluck.

He went on farther, and in the great hall he saw the whole of the court
lying asleep, and up by the throne lay the King and Queen.

Then he went on still farther, and all was so quiet that a breath could
be heard, and at last he came to the tower, and opened the door into
the little room where Briar-rose was sleeping. There she lay, so
beautiful that he could not turn his eyes away; and he stooped down and
gave her a kiss. But as soon as he kissed her, Briar-rose opened her
eyes and awoke, and looked at him quite sweetly.

Then they went down together, and the King awoke, and the Queen, and
the whole court, and looked at each other in great astonishment. And
the horses in the court-yard stood up and shook themselves; the hounds
jumped up and wagged their tails; the pigeons upon the roof pulled out
their heads from under their wings, looked round, and flew into the
open country; the flies on the wall crept again; the fire in the
kitchen burned up and flickered and cooked the meat; the joint began to
turn and frizzle again, and the cook gave the boy such a box on the ear
that he screamed, and the maid plucked the fowl ready for the spit.

And then the marriage of the King’s son with Briar-rose was celebrated
with all splendour, and they lived contented to the end of their days.

51 Fundevogel (Bird-foundling)

There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt, and as he
entered it he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were
there. He followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree, and at
the top of this a little child was sitting, for the mother had fallen
asleep under the tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen it in
her arms, had flown down, snatched it away, and set it on the high
tree.