The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to
himself, “Thou wilt take him home with thee, and bring him up with thy
Lina.” He took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up
together. The one, however, which he had found on a tree was called
Fundevogel, because a bird had carried it away. Fundevogel and Lina
loved each other so dearly that when they did not see each other they
were sad.

The forester, however, had an old cook, who one evening took two pails
and began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out
to the spring. Lina saw this and said, “Hark you, old Sanna, why are
you fetching so much water?” “If thou wilt never repeat it to anyone, I
will tell thee why.” So Lina said, no, she would never repeat it to
anyone, and then the cook said, “Early to-morrow morning, when the
forester is out hunting, I will heat the water, and when it is boiling
in the kettle, I will throw in Fundevogel, and will boil him in it.”

Betimes next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when
he was gone the children were still in bed. Then Lina said to
Fundevogel, “If thou wilt never leave me, I too will never leave thee.”
Fundevogel said, “Neither now, nor ever will I leave thee.” Then said
Lina, “Then I will tell thee. Last night, old Sanna carried so many
buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing
that, and she said that if I would promise not to tell any one she
would tell me, and I said I would be sure not to tell any one, and she
said that early to-morrow morning when father was out hunting, she
would set the kettle full of water, throw thee into it and boil thee;
but we will get up quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together.”

The two children therefore got up, dressed themselves quickly, and went
away. When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the
bed-room to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it. But when she came
in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone. Then she was
terribly alarmed, and she said to herself, “What shall I say now when
the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone? They must
be followed instantly to get them back again.”