Once the King made a great feast and invited thereto, from far and
near, all the young men likely to marry. They were all marshalled in a
row according to their rank and standing; first came the kings, then
the grand-dukes, then the princes, the earls, the barons, and the
gentry. Then the King’s daughter was led through the ranks, but to
every one she had some objection to make; one was too fat, “The
wine-cask,” she said. Another was too tall, “Long and thin has little
in.” The third was too short, “Short and thick is never quick.” The
fourth was too pale, “As pale as death.” The fifth too red, “A
fighting-cock.” The sixth was not straight enough, “A green log dried
behind the stove.”

So she had something to say against every one, but she made herself
especially merry over a good king who stood quite high up in the row,
and whose chin had grown a little crooked. “Well,” she cried and
laughed, “he has a chin like a thrush’s beak!” and from that time he
got the name of King Thrushbeard.

But the old King, when he saw that his daugher did nothing but mock the
people, and despised all the suitors who were gathered there, was very
angry, and swore that she should have for her husband the very first
beggar that came to his doors.

A few days afterwards a fiddler came and sang beneath the windows,
trying to earn a small alms. When the King heard him he said, “Let him
come up.” So the fiddler came in, in his dirty, ragged clothes, and
sang before the King and his daughter, and when he had ended he asked
for a trifling gift. The King said, “Your song has pleased me so well
that I will give you my daughter there, to wife.”

The King’s daughter shuddered, but the King said, “I have taken an oath
to give you to the very first beggar-man, and I will keep it.” All she
could say was in vain; the priest was brought, and she had to let
herself be wedded to the fiddler on the spot. When that was done the
King said, “Now it is not proper for you, a beggar-woman, to stay any
longer in my palace, you may just go away with your husband.”

The beggar-man led her out by the hand, and she was obliged to walk
away on foot with him. When they came to a large forest she asked, “To
whom does that beautiful forest belong?” “It belongs to King
Thrushbeard; if you had taken him, it would have been yours.” “Ah,
unhappy girl that I am, if I had but taken King Thrushbeard!”

Afterwards they came to a meadow, and she asked again, “To whom does
this beautiful green meadow belong?” “It belongs to King Thrushbeard;
if you had taken him, it would have been yours.” “Ah, unhappy girl that
I am, if I had but taken King Thrushbeard!”