All at once the King’s son entered, clothed in velvet and silk, with
gold chains about his neck. And when he saw the beautiful woman
standing by the door he seized her by the hand, and would have danced
with her; but she refused and shrank with fear, for she saw that it was
King Thrushbeard, her suitor whom she had driven away with scorn. Her
out, and the scraps were scattered all about. And when the people saw
it, there arose general laughter and derision, and she was so ashamed
that she would rather have been a thousand fathoms below the ground.
She sprang to the door and would have run away, but on the stairs a man
caught her and brought her back; and when she looked at him it was King
Thrushbeard again. He said to her kindly, “Do not be afraid, I and the
fiddler who has been living with you in that wretched hovel are one.
For love of you I disguised myself so; and I also was the hussar who
rode through your crockery. This was all done to humble your proud
spirit, and to punish you for the insolence with which you mocked me.”

Then she wept bitterly and said, “I have done great wrong, and am not
worthy to be your wife.” But he said, “Be comforted, the evil days are
past; now we will celebrate our wedding.” Then the maids-in-waiting
came and put on her the most splendid clothing, and her father and his
whole court came and wished her happiness in her marriage with King
Thrushbeard, and the joy now began in earnest. I wish you and I had
been there too.

53 Little Snow-white

Once upon a time in the middle of winter, when the flakes of snow were
falling like feathers from the sky, a queen sat at a window sewing, and
the frame of the window was made of black ebony. And whilst she was
sewing and looking out of the window at the snow, she pricked her
finger with the needle, and three drops of blood fell upon the snow.
And the red looked pretty upon the white snow, and she thought to
herself, “Would that I had a child as white as snow, as red as blood,
and as black as the wood of the window-frame.”

Soon after that she had a little daughter, who was as white as snow,
and as red as blood, and her hair was as black as ebony; and she was
therefore called Little Snow-white. And when the child was born, the
Queen died.

After a year had passed the King took to himself another wife. She was
a beautiful woman, but proud and haughty, and she could not bear that
anyone else should surpass her in beauty. She had a wonderful
looking-glass, and when she stood in front of it and looked at herself
in it, and said—

“Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall,
Who in this land is the fairest of all?”

the looking-glass answered—