“Thou, O Queen, art the fairest of all!”

Then she was satisfied, for she knew that the looking-glass spoke the
truth.

But Snow-white was growing up, and grew more and more beautiful; and
when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as the day, and more
beautiful than the Queen herself. And once when the Queen asked her
looking-glass—

“Looking-glass, Looking-glass, on the wall,
Who in this land is the fairest of all?”

it answered—

“Thou art fairer than all who are here, Lady Queen.”
But more beautiful still is Snow-white, as I ween.”

Then the Queen was shocked, and turned yellow and green with envy. From
that hour, whenever she looked at Snow-white, her heart heaved in her
breast, she hated the girl so much.

And envy and pride grew higher and higher in her heart like a weed, so
that she had no peace day or night. She called a huntsman, and said,
“Take the child away into the forest; I will no longer have her in my
sight. Kill her, and bring me back her heart as a token.” The huntsman
obeyed, and took her away; but when he had drawn his knife, and was
about to pierce Snow-white’s innocent heart, she began to weep, and
said, “Ah dear huntsman, leave me my life! I will run away into the
wild forest, and never come home again.”

And as she was so beautiful the huntsman had pity on her and said, “Run
away, then, you poor child.” “The wild beasts will soon have devoured
you,” thought he, and yet it seemed as if a stone had been rolled from
his heart since it was no longer needful for him to kill her. And as a
young boar just then came running by he stabbed it, and cut out its
heart and took it to the Queen as proof that the child was dead. The
cook had to salt this, and the wicked Queen ate it, and thought she had
eaten the heart of Snow-white.

But now the poor child was all alone in the great forest, and so
terrified that she looked at every leaf of every tree, and did not know
what to do. Then she began to run, and ran over sharp stones and
through thorns, and the wild beasts ran past her, but did her no harm.

She ran as long as her feet would go until it was almost evening; then
she saw a little cottage and went into it to rest herself. Everything
in the cottage was small, but neater and cleaner than can be told.
There was a table on which was a white cover, and seven little plates,
and on each plate a little spoon; moreover, there were seven little
knives and forks, and seven little mugs. Against the wall stood seven
little beds side by side, and covered with snow-white counterpanes.