One night he met, in a lonely wood, a dusty, black charcoal-burner, who
was burning charcoal there, and had some potatoes by the fire, on which
he was going to make a meal. “Good evening, blackbird!” said the youth.
“How dost thou get on in thy solitude?”

“One day is like another,” replied the charcoal-burner, “and every
night potatoes! Hast thou a mind to have some, and wilt thou be my
guest?” “Many thanks,” replied the traveler, “I won’t rob thee of thy
supper; thou didst not reckon on a visitor, but if thou wilt put up
with what I have, thou shalt have an invitation.”

“Who is to prepare it for thee?” said the charcoal-burner. “I see that
thou hast nothing with thee, and there is no one within a two hours’
walk who could give thee anything.” “And yet there shall be a meal,”
answered the youth, “and better than any thou hast ever tasted.”
Thereupon he brought his cloth out of his knapsack, spread it on the
ground, and said, “Little cloth, cover thyself,” and instantly boiled
meat and baked meat stood there, and as hot as if it had just come out
of the kitchen. The charcoal-burner stared, but did not require much
pressing; he fell to, and thrust larger and larger mouthfuls into his
black mouth. When they had eaten everything, the charcoal-burner smiled
contentedly, and said, “Hark thee, thy table-cloth has my approval; it
would be a fine thing for me in this forest, where no one ever cooks me
anything good. I will propose an exchange to thee; there in the corner
hangs a soldier’s knapsack, which is certainly old and shabby, but in
it lie concealed wonderful powers; but, as I no longer use it, I will
give it to thee for the table-cloth.”

“I must first know what these wonderful powers are,” answered the
youth.

“That will I tell thee,” replied the charcoal-burner; “every time thou
tappest it with thy hand, a corporal comes with six men armed from head
to foot, and they do whatsoever thou commandest them.” “So far as I am
concerned,” said the youth, “if nothing else can be done, we will
exchange,” and he gave the charcoal-burner the cloth, took the knapsack
from the hook, put it on, and bade farewell. When he had walked a
while, he wished to make a trial of the magical powers of his knapsack
and tapped it. Immediately the seven warriors stepped up to him, and
the corporal said, “What does my lord and ruler wish for?”