Once there was a miller who was poor, but who had a beautiful daughter.
Now it happened that he had to go and speak to the King, and in order
to make himself appear important he said to him, “I have a daughter who
can spin straw into gold.” The King said to the miller, “That is an art
which pleases me well; if your daughter is as clever as you say, bring
her to-morrow to my palace, and I will try what she can do.”

And when the girl was brought to him he took her into a room which was
quite full of straw, gave her a spinning-wheel and a reel, and said,
“Now set to work, and if by to-morrow morning early you have not spun
this straw into gold during the night, you must die.” Thereupon he
himself locked up the room, and left her in it alone. So there sat the
poor miller’s daughter, and for the life of her could not tell what to
do; she had no idea how straw could be spun into gold, and she grew
more and more miserable, until at last she began to weep.

But all at once the door opened, and in came a little man, and said,
“Good evening, Mistress Miller; why are you crying so?” “Alas!”
answered the girl, “I have to spin straw into gold, and I do not know
how to do it.” “What will you give me,” said the manikin, “if I do it
for you?” “My necklace,” said the girl. The little man took the
necklace, seated himself in front of the wheel, and “whirr, whirr,
whirr,” three turns, and the reel was full; then he put another on, and
whirr, whirr, whirr, three times round, and the second was full too.
And so it went on until the morning, when all the straw was spun, and
all the reels were full of gold. By daybreak the King was already
there, and when he saw the gold he was astonished and delighted, but
his heart became only more greedy. He had the miller’s daughter taken
into another room full of straw, which was much larger, and commanded
her to spin that also in one night if she valued her life. The girl
knew not how to help herself, and was crying, when the door again
opened, and the little man appeared, and said, “What will you give me
if I spin that straw into gold for you?” “The ring on my finger,”
answered the girl. The little man took the ring, again began to turn
the wheel, and by morning had spun all the straw into glittering gold.