The King rejoiced beyond measure at the sight, but still he had not
gold enough; and he had the miller’s daughter taken into a still larger
room full of straw, and said, “You must spin this, too, in the course
of this night; but if you succeed, you shall be my wife.” “Even if she
be a miller’s daughter,” thought he, “I could not find a richer wife in
the whole world.”

When the girl was alone the manikin came again for the third time, and
said, “What will you give me if I spin the straw for you this time
also?” “I have nothing left that I could give,” answered the girl.
“Then promise me, if you should become Queen, your first child.” “Who
knows whether that will ever happen?” thought the miller’s daughter;
and, not knowing how else to help herself in this strait, she promised
the manikin what he wanted, and for that he once more span the straw
into gold.

And when the King came in the morning, and found all as he had wished,
he took her in marriage, and the pretty miller’s daughter became a
Queen.

A year after, she had a beautiful child, and she never gave a thought
to the manikin. But suddenly he came into her room, and said, “Now give
me what you promised.” The Queen was horror-struck, and offered the
manikin all the riches of the kingdom if he would leave her the child.
But the manikin said, “No, something that is living is dearer to me
than all the treasures in the world.” Then the Queen began to weep and
cry, so that the manikin pitied her. “I will give you three days’
time,” said he, “if by that time you find out my name, then shall you
keep your child.”

So the Queen thought the whole night of all the names that she had ever
heard, and she sent a messenger over the country to inquire, far and
wide, for any other names that there might be. When the manikin came
the next day, she began with Caspar, Melchior, Balthazar, and said all
the names she knew, one after another; but to every one the little man
said, “That is not my name.” On the second day she had inquiries made
in the neighborhood as to the names of the people there, and she
repeated to the manikin the most uncommon and curious. “Perhaps your
name is Shortribs, or Sheepshanks, or Laceleg?” but he always answered,
“That is not my name.”

On the third day the messenger came back again, and said, “I have not
been able to find a single new name, but as I came to a high mountain
at the end of the forest, where the fox and the hare bid each other
good night, there I saw a little house, and before the house a fire was
burning, and round about the fire quite a ridiculous little man was
jumping: he hopped upon one leg, and shouted—