When they were delivered, Roland said, “Now I will go to my father and
arrange for the wedding.” “Then in the meantime I will stay here and
wait for thee,” said the girl, “and that no one may recognize me, I
will change myself into a red stone land-mark.” Then Roland went away,
and the girl stood like a red land-mark in the field and waited for her
beloved. But when Roland got home, he fell into the snares of another,
who prevailed on him so far that he forgot the maiden. The poor girl
remained there a long time, but at length, as he did not return at all,
she was sad, and changed herself into a flower, and thought, “Some one
will surely come this way, and trample me down.”

It befell, however, that a shepherd kept his sheep in the field, and
saw the flower, and as it was so pretty, plucked it, took it with him,
and laid it away in his chest. From that time forth, strange things
happened in the shepherd’s house. When he arose in the morning, all the
work was already done, the room was swept, the table and benches
cleaned, the fire on the hearth was lighted, and the water was fetched,
and at noon, when he came home, the table was laid, and a good dinner
served. He could not conceive how this came to pass, for he never saw a
human being in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in
it. He was certainly pleased with this good attendance, but still at
last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her
advice. The wise woman said, “There is some enchantment behind it,
listen very early some morning if anything is moving in the room, and
if thou seest anything, let it be what it may, throw a white cloth over
it, and then the magic will be stopped.”

The shepherd did as she bade him, and next morning just as day dawned,
he saw the chest open, and the flower come out. Swiftly he sprang
towards it, and threw a white cloth over it. Instantly the
transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood before him,
who owned to him that she had been the flower, and that up to this time
she had attended to his housekeeping. She told him her story, and as
she pleased him he asked her if she would marry him, but she answered,
“No,” for she wanted to remain faithful to her sweetheart Roland,
although he had deserted her, but she promised not to go away, but to
keep house for the shepherd for the future.