The King’s son set off, but he sighed and was sorrowful, for how was he
to find the Golden Horse? But all at once he saw his old friend the Fox
sitting on the road. “Look you,” said the Fox, “this has happened
because you did not give heed to me. However, be of good courage. I
will give you my help, and tell you how to get to the Golden Horse. You
must go straight on, and you will come to a castle, where in the stable
stands the horse. The grooms will be lying in front of the stable; but
they will be asleep and snoring, and you can quietly lead out the
Golden Horse. But of one thing you must take heed; put on him the
common saddle of wood and leather, and not the golden one, which hangs
close by, else it will go ill with you.” Then the Fox stretched out his
tail, the King’s son seated himself upon it, and away he went over
stock and stone until his hair whistled in the wind.

Everything happened just as the Fox had said; the prince came to the
stable in which the Golden Horse was standing, but just as he was going
to put the common saddle upon him, he thought, “It will be a shame to
such a beautiful beast, if I do not give him the good saddle which
belongs to him by right.” But scarcely had the golden saddle touched
the horse than he began to neigh loudly. The grooms awoke, seized the
youth, and threw him into prison. The next morning he was sentenced by
the court to death; but the King promised to grant him his life, and
the Golden Horse as well, if he could bring back the beautiful princess
from the Golden Castle.

With a heavy heart the youth set out; yet luckily for him he soon found
the trusty Fox. “I ought only to leave you to your ill-luck,” said the
Fox, “but I pity you, and will help you once more out of your trouble.
This road takes you straight to the Golden Castle, you will reach it by
eventide; and at night when everything is quiet the beautiful princess
goes to the bathing-house to bathe. When she enters it, run up to her
and give her a kiss, then she will follow you, and you can take her
away with you; only do not allow her to take leave of her parents
first, or it will go ill with you.”

Then the Fox stretched out his tail, the King’s son seated himself upon
it, and away the Fox went, over stock and stone, till his hair whistled
in the wind.