They came to the wood where the Fox had first met them, as it was cool
and pleasant within it, the two brothers said, “Let us rest a little by
the well, and eat and drink.” He agreed, and whilst they were talking
he forgot himself, and sat down upon the edge of the well without
thinking of any evil. But the two brothers threw him backwards into the
well, took the maiden, the Horse, and the Bird, and went home to their
father. “Here we bring you not only the Golden Bird,” said they; “we
have won the Golden Horse also, and the maiden from the Golden Castle.”
Then was there great joy; but the Horse would not eat, the Bird would
not sing, and the maiden sat and wept.

But the youngest brother was not dead. By good fortune the well was
dry, and he fell upon soft moss without being hurt, but he could not
get out again. Even in this strait the faithful Fox did not leave him:
it came and leapt down to him, and upbraided him for having forgotten
its advice. “But yet I cannot give it up so,” he said; “I will help you
up again into daylight.” He bade him grasp his tail and keep tight hold
of it; and then he pulled him up.

“You are not out of all danger yet,” said the Fox. “Your brothers were
not sure of your death, and have surrounded the wood with watchers, who
are to kill you if you let yourself be seen.” But a poor man was
sitting upon the road, with whom the youth changed clothes, and in this
way he got to the King’s palace.

No one knew him, but the Bird began to sing, the Horse began to eat,
and the beautiful maiden left off weeping. The King, astonished, asked,
“What does this mean?” Then the maiden said, “I do not know, but I have
been so sorrowful and now I am so happy! I feel as if my true
bridegroom had come.” She told him all that had happened, although the
other brothers had threatened her with death if she were to betray
anything.

The King commanded that all people who were in his castle should be
brought before him; and amongst them came the youth in his ragged
clothes; but the maiden knew him at once and fell upon his neck. The
wicked brothers were seized and put to death, but he was married to the
beautiful maiden and declared heir to the King.