The driver had to leave the waggon standing, and full of anger and
vexation went home. “Ah,” said he to his wife, “what misfortunes I have
had! My wine has run out, and the horses are all three dead!” “Alas,
husband,” she answered, “what a malicious bird has come into the house!
It has gathered together every bird there is in the world, and they
have fallen on our corn up there, and are devouring it.” Then he went
upstairs, and thousands and thousands of birds were sitting in the loft
and had eaten up all the corn, and the sparrow was sitting in the midst
of them. Then the driver cried, “Oh, what an unfortunate man I am?”

“Not unfortunate enough yet!” answered the sparrow; “waggoner, it shall
cost thee thy life as well,” and flew out.

Then the waggoner had lost all his property, and he went downstairs
into the room, sat down behind the stove and was quite furious and
bitter. But the sparrow sat outside in front of the window, and cried,
“Waggoner, it shall cost thee thy life.” Then the waggoner snatched the
axe and threw it at the sparrow, but it only broke the window, and did
not hit the bird. The sparrow now hopped in, placed itself on the stove
and cried, “Waggoner, it shall cost thee thy life.” The latter, quite
mad and blind with rage, smote the stove in twain, and as the sparrow
flew from one place to another so it fared with all his household
furniture, looking-glass, benches, table, and at last the walls of his
house, and yet he could not hit the bird. At length, however, he caught
it with his hand. Then his wife said, “Shall I kill it?” “No,” cried
he, “that would be too merciful. It shall die much more cruelly,” and
he took it and swallowed it whole. The sparrow, however, began to
flutter about in his body, and fluttered up again into the man’s mouth;
then it stretched out its head, and cried, “Waggoner, it shall still
cost thee thy life.” The driver gave the axe to his wife, and said,
“Wife, kill the bird in my mouth for me.” The woman struck, but missed
her blow, and hit the waggoner right on his head, so that he fell dead.
But the sparrow flew up and away.

59 Frederick and Catherine