There was once on a time a man who was called Frederick and a woman
called Catherine, who had married each other and lived together as
young married folks. One day Frederick said, “I will now go and plough,
Catherine; when I come back, there must be some roast meat on the table
for hunger, and a fresh draught for thirst.” “Just go, Frederick,”
answered Kate, “just go, I will have all ready for you.” Therefore when
dinner-time drew near she got a sausage out of the chimney, put it in
the frying-pan, put some butter to it, and set it on the fire. The
sausage began to fry and to hiss, Catherine stood beside it and held
the handle of the pan, and had her own thoughts as she was doing it. Then it occurred to her, “While the sausage is getting done thou
couldst go into the cellar and draw beer.” So she set the frying-pan
safely on the fire, took a can, and went down into the cellar to draw
beer. The beer ran into the can and Kate watched it, and then she
thought, “Oh, dear! The dog upstairs is not fastened up, it might get
the sausage out of the pan. Well thought of.” And in a trice she was up
the cellar-steps again, but the Spitz had the sausage in its mouth
already, and trailed it away on the ground. But Catherine, who was not
idle, set out after it, and chased it a long way into the field; the
dog, however, was swifter than Catherine and did not let the sausage
journey easily, but skipped over the furrows with it. “What’s gone is
gone!” said Kate, and turned round, and as she had run till she was
weary, she walked quietly and comfortably, and cooled herself. During
this time the beer was still running out of the cask, for Kate had not
turned the tap. And when the can was full and there was no other place
for it, it ran into the cellar and did not stop until the whole cask
was empty. As soon as Kate was on the steps she saw the mischance. “Good gracious!” she cried. “What shall I do now to stop Frederick
knowing it!” She thought for a while, and at last she remembered that
up in the garret was still standing a sack of the finest wheat flour
from the last fair, and she would fetch that down and strew it over the
beer. “Yes,” said she, “he who saves a thing when he ought, has it
afterwards when he needs it,” and she climbed up to the garret and
carried the sack below, and threw it straight down on the can of beer,
which she knocked over, and Frederick’s draught swam also in the
cellar. “It is all right,” said Kate, “where the one is the other ought
to be also,” and she strewed the meal over the whole cellar.