When it
was done she was heartily delighted with her work, and said, “How clean
and wholesome it does look here!” At mid-day home came Frederick: “Now,
wife, what have you ready for me?” “Ah, Freddy,” she answered, “I was
frying a sausage for you, but whilst I was drawing the beer to drink
with it, the dog took it away out of the pan, and whilst I was running
after the dog, all the beer ran out, and whilst I was drying up the
beer with the flour, I knocked over the can as well, but be easy, the
cellar is quite dry again.” Said Frederick, “Kate, Kate, you should not
have done that! to let the sausage be carried off and the beer run out
of the cask, and throw out all our flour into the bargain!” “Indeed,
Frederick, I did not know that, you should have told me.” The man
thought, “If my wife is like this, I must look after things more.” Now
he had got together a good number of thalers which he changed into
gold, and said to Catherine, “Look, these are counters for playing
games; I will put them in a pot and bury them in the stable under the
cow’s manger, but mind you keep away from them, or it will be the worse
for you.” Said she, “Oh, no, Frederick, I certainly will not go.” And
when Frederick was gone some pedlars came into the village who had
cheap earthen-bowls and pots, and asked the young woman if there was
nothing she wanted to bargain with them for? “Oh, dear people,” said
Catherine, “I have no money and can buy nothing, but if you have any
use for yellow counters I will buy of you.” “Yellow counters, why not? But just let us see them.” “Then go into the stable and dig under the
cow’s manger, and you will find the yellow counters. I am not allowed
to go there.” The rogues went thither, dug and found pure gold. Then
they laid hold of it, ran away, and left their pots and bowls behind in
the house. Catherine thought she must use her new things, and as she
had no lack in the kitchen already without these, she knocked the
bottom out of every pot, and set them all as ornaments on the paling
which went round about the house. When Frederick came and saw the new
decorations, he said, “Catherine, what have you been about?” “I have
bought them, Frederick, for the counters which were under the cow’s
manger. I did not go there myself, the pedlars had to dig them out for
themselves.” “Ah, wife,” said Frederick, “what have you done? Those
were not counters, but pure gold, and all our wealth; you should not
have done that.” “Indeed, Frederick,” said she, “I did not know that,
you should have forewarned me.”