Catherine stood for a while and bethought to herself; then she said,
“Listen, Frederick, we will soon get the gold back again, we will run
after the thieves.” “Come, then,” said Frederick, “we will try it; but
take with you some butter and cheese that we may have something to eat
on the way.” “Yes, Frederick, I will take them.” They set out, and as
Frederick was the better walker, Catherine followed him. “It is to my
advantage,” thought she, “when we turn back I shall be a little way in
advance.” Then she came to a hill where there were deep ruts on both
sides of the road. “There one can see,” said Catherine, “how they have
torn and skinned and galled the poor earth, it will never be whole
again as long as it lives,” and in her heart’s compassion she took her
butter and smeared the ruts right and left, that they might not be so
hurt by the wheels, and as she was thus bending down in her charity,
one of the cheeses rolled out of her pocket down the hill. Said
Catherine, “I have made my way once up here, I will not go down again;
another may run and fetch it back.” So she took another cheese and
rolled it down. But the cheeses did not come back, so she let a third
run down, thinking. “Perhaps they are waiting for company, and do not
like to walk alone.” As all three stayed away she said, “I do not know
what that can mean, but it may perhaps be that the third has not found
the way, and has gone wrong, I will just send the fourth to call it.”
But the fourth did no better than the third. Then Catherine was angry,
and threw down the fifth and sixth as well, and these were her last. She remained standing for some time watching for their coming, but when
they still did not come, she said, “Oh, you are good folks to send in
search of death, you stay a fine long time away! Do you think I will
wait any longer for you? I shall go my way, you may run after me; you
have younger legs than I.” Catherine went on and found Frederick, who
was standing waiting for her because he wanted something to eat. “Now
just let us have what you have brought with you,” said he. She gave him
the dry bread. “Where have you the butter and the cheeses?” asked the
man.