And now they went into the forest, and sought the rogues, but did not
find them. At length as it grew dark they climbed into a tree and
resolved to spend the night there. Scarcely, however, had they sat down
at the top of it than the rascals came thither who carry away with them
what does not want to go, and find things before they are lost. They
sat down under the very tree in which Frederick and Catherine were
sitting, lighted a fire, and were about to share their booty. Frederick
got down on the other side and collected some stones together. Then he
climbed up again with them, and wished to throw them at the thieves and
kill them. The stones, however, did not hit them, and the knaves cried,
“It will soon be morning, the wind is shaking down the fir-apples.”
Catherine still had the door on her back, and as it pressed so heavily
on her, she thought it was the fault of the dried pears, and said,
“Frederick, I must throw the pears down.” “No, Catherine, not now,” he
replied, “they might betray us.” “Oh, but, Frederick, I must! They
weigh me down far too much.” “Do it, then, and be hanged!” Then the
dried pears rolled down between the branches, and the rascals below
said, “The leaves are falling.”

A short time afterwards, as the door was still heavy, Catherine said,
“Ah, Frederick, I must pour out the vinegar.” “No, Catherine, you must
not, it might betray us.” “Ah, but, Frederick, I must, it weighs me
down far too much.” “Then do it and be hanged!” So she emptied out the
vinegar, and it besprinkled the robbers. They said amongst themselves,
“The dew is already falling.” At length Catherine thought, “Can it
really be the door which weighs me down so?” and said, “Frederick, I
must throw the door down.” “No, not now, Catherine, it might discover
us.” “Oh, but, Frederick, I must. It weighs me down far too much.” “Oh,
no, Catherine, do hold it fast.” “Ah, Frederick, I am letting it fall!”
“Let it go, then, in the devil’s name.” Then it fell down with a
violent clatter, and the rascals below cried, “The devil is coming down
the tree!” and they ran away and left everything behind them. Early
next morning, when the two came down they found all their gold again,
and carried it home.