When they were once more at home, Frederick said, “And now, Catherine,
you, too, must be industrious and work.” “Yes, Frederick, I will soon
do that, I will go into the field and cut corn.” When Catherine got
into the field, she said to herself, “Shall I eat before I cut, or
shall I sleep before I cut? Oh, I will eat first.” Then Catherine ate
and eating made her sleepy, and she began to cut, and half in a dream
cut all her clothes to pieces, her apron, her gown, and her shift. When
Catherine awoke again after a long sleep she was standing there
half-naked, and said to herself, “Is it I, or is it not I? Alas, it is
not I.” In the meantime night came, and Catherine ran into the village,
knocked at her husband’s window, and cried, “Frederick.”

“What is the matter?” “I should very much like to know if Catherine is
in?” “Yes, yes,” replied Frederick, “she must be in and asleep.”

Said she, “’Tis well, then I am certainly at home already,” and ran
away.

Outside Catherine found some vagabonds who were going to steal. Then
she went to them and said, “I will help you to steal.” The rascals
thought that she knew the situation of the place, and were willing.
Catherine went in front of the houses, and cried, “Good folks, have you
anything? We want to steal.” The thieves thought to themselves, “That’s
a fine way of doing things,” and wished themselves once more rid of
Catherine. Then they said to her, “Outside the village the pastor has
some turnips in the field. Go there and pull up some turnips for us.”
Catherine went to the ground, and began to pull them up, but was so
idle that she did not gather them together. Then a man came by, saw
her, and stood still and thought that it was the devil who was thus
rooting amongst the turnips. He ran away into the village to the
pastor, and said, “Mr. Pastor, the devil is in your turnip-ground,
rooting up turnips.” “Ah, heavens,” answered the pastor, “I have a lame
foot, I cannot go out and drive him away.” Said the man, “Then I will
carry you on my back,” and he carried him out on his back. And when
they came to the ground, Catherine arose and stood up her full height.
“Ah, the devil!” cried the pastor, and both hurried away, and in his
great fright the pastor could run better with his lame foot than the
man who had carried him on his back could do with his sound one.

60 The Two Brothers