The goldsmith was crafty and cunning, and knew very well what kind of a
bird it was. He called his wife and said, “Roast me the gold bird, and
take care that none of it is lost. I have a fancy to eat it all
myself.” The bird, however, was no common one, but of so wondrous a
kind that whosoever ate its heart and liver found every morning a piece
of gold beneath his pillow. The woman made the bird ready, put it on
the spit, and let it roast. Now it happened that while it was at the
fire, and the woman was forced to go out of the kitchen on account of
moment two little bits of the bird fell down into the dripping-tin, one
of the boys said, “We will eat these two little bits; I am so hungry,
and no one will ever miss them.” Then the two ate the pieces, but the
woman came into the kitchen and saw that they were eating something and
said, “What have ye been eating?” “Two little morsels which fell out of
the bird,” answered they. “That must have been the heart and the
liver,” said the woman, quite frightened, and in order that her husband
might not miss them and be angry, she quickly killed a young cock, took
out his heart and liver, and put them beside the golden bird. When it
was ready, she carried it to the goldsmith, who consumed it all alone,
and left none of it. Next morning, however, when he felt beneath his
pillow, and expected to bring out the piece of gold, no more gold
pieces were there than there had always been.

The two children did not know what a piece of good-fortune had fallen
to their lot. Next morning when they arose, something fell rattling to
the ground, and when they picked it up there were two gold pieces! They
took them to their father, who was astonished and said, “How can that
have happened?” When next morning they again found two, and so on
daily, he went to his brother and told him the strange story. The
goldsmith at once knew how it had come to pass, and that the children
had eaten the heart and liver of the golden bird, and in order to
revenge himself, and because he was envious and hard-hearted, he said
to the father, “Thy children are in league with the Evil One, do not
take the gold, and do not suffer them to stay any longer in thy house,
for he has them in his power, and may ruin thee likewise.” The father
feared the Evil One, and painful as it was to him, he nevertheless led
the twins forth into the forest, and with a sad heart left them there.