And now the two children ran about the forest, and sought the way home
again, but could not find it, and only lost themselves more and more.
At length they met with a huntsman, who asked, “To whom do you children
belong?” “We are the poor broom-maker’s boys,” they replied, and they
told him that their father would not keep them any longer in the house
because a piece of gold lay every morning under their pillows. “Come,”
said the huntsman, “that is nothing so very bad, if at the same time
you keep honest, and are not idle.” As the good man liked the children,
and had none of his own, he took them home with him and said, “I will
be your father, and bring you up till you are big.” They learnt
huntsmanship from him, and the piece of gold which each of them found
when he awoke, was kept for them by him in case they should need it in
the future.

When they were grown up, their foster-father one day took them into the
forest with him, and said, “To-day shall you make your trial shot, so
that I may release you from your apprenticeship, and make you
huntsmen.” They went with him to lie in wait and stayed there a long
time, but no game appeared. The huntsman, however, looked above him and
saw a covey of wild geese flying in the form of a triangle, and said to
one of them, “Shoot me down one from each corner.” He did it, and thus
accomplished his trial shot. Soon after another covey came flying by in
the form of the figure two, and the huntsman bade the other also bring
down one from each corner, and his trial shot was likewise successful.
“Now,” said the foster-father, “I pronounce you out of your
apprenticeship; you are skilled huntsmen.” Thereupon the two brothers
went forth together into the forest, and took counsel with each other
and planned something. And in the evening when they had sat down to
supper, they said to their foster-father, “We will not touch food, or
take one mouthful, until you have granted us a request.” Said he,
“What, then, is your request?” They replied, “We have now finished
learning, and we must prove ourselves in the world, so allow us to go
away and travel.” Then spake the old man joyfully, “You talk like brave
huntsmen, that which you desire has been my wish; go forth, all will go
well with you.” Thereupon they ate and drank joyously together.