When the appointed day came, their foster-father presented each of them
with a good gun and a dog, and let each of them take as many of his
saved-up gold pieces as he chose. Then he accompanied them a part of
the way, and when taking leave, he gave them a bright knife, and said,
“If ever you separate, stick this knife into a tree at the place where
you part, and when one of you goes back, he will will be able to see
how his absent brother is faring, for the side of the knife which is
turned in the direction by which he went, will rust if he dies, but
will remain bright as long as he is alive.” The two brothers went still
farther onwards, and came to a forest which was so large that it was
impossible for them to get out of it in one day. So they passed the
night in it, and ate what they had put in their hunting-pouches, but
they walked all the second day likewise, and still did not get out. As
they had nothing to eat, one of them said, “We must shoot something for
ourselves or we shall suffer from hunger,” and loaded his gun, and
looked about him. And when an old hare came running up towards them, he
laid his gun on his shoulder, but the hare cried,

“Dear huntsman, do but let me live,
Two little ones to thee I’ll give,”

and sprang instantly into the thicket, and brought two young ones. But
the little creatures played so merrily, and were so pretty, that the
huntsmen could not find it in their hearts to kill them. They therefore
kept them with them, and the little hares followed on foot. Soon after
this, a fox crept past; they were just going to shoot it, but the fox
cried,

“Dear hunstman, do but let me live,
Two little ones I’ll also give.”

He, too, brought two little foxes, and the huntsmen did not like to
kill them either, but gave them to the hares for company, and they
followed behind. It was not long before a wolf strode out of the
thicket; the huntsmen made ready to shoot him, but the wolf cried,

“Dear huntsman, do but let me live,
Two little ones I’ll likewise give.”

The huntsmen put the two wolves beside the other animals, and they
followed behind them. Then a bear came who wanted to trot about a
little longer, and cried:

“Dear huntsman, do but let me live,
Two little ones I, too, will give.”

The two young bears were added to the others, and there were already
eight of them. At length who came? A lion came, and tossed his mane.
But the huntsmen did not let themselves be frightened and aimed at him
likewise, but the lion also said,

“Dear huntsman, do but let me live,
Two little ones I, too, will give.”