The host said, “I should indeed like to see that,” but he would make no
more wagers. The huntsman called the fox and said, “My little fox, go
and fetch me some roast meat, such as the King eats.” The red fox knew
the bye-ways better, and went by holes and corners without any dog
seeing him, seated himself under the chair of the King’s daughter, and
scratched her foot. Then she looked down and recognized the fox by its
collar, took him into her chamber with her and said, “Dear fox, what
dost thou want?” He answered, “My master, who killed the dragon, is
here, and has sent me. I am to ask for some roast meat such as the King
is eating.” Then she made the cook come, who was obliged to prepare a
roast joint, the same as was eaten by the King, and to carry it for the
fox as far as the door. Then the fox took the dish, waved away with his
tail the flies which had settled on the meat, and then carried it to
his master. “Behold, sir host,” said the huntsman, “bread and meat are
here but now I will also have proper vegetables with it, such as are
eaten by the King.” Then he called the wolf, and said, “Dear Wolf, go
thither and fetch me vegetables such as the King eats.” Then the wolf
went straight to the palace, as he feared no one, and when he got to
the King’s daughter’s chamber, he twitched at the back of her dress, so
that she was forced to look round. She recognized him by his collar,
and took him into her chamber with her, and said, “Dear Wolf, what dost
thou want?” He answered, “My master, who killed the dragon, is here, I
am to ask for some vegetables, such as the King eats.” Then she made
the cook come, and he had to make ready a dish of vegetables, such as
the King ate, and had to carry it for the wolf as far as the door, and
then the wolf took the dish from him, and carried it to his master. “Behold, sir host,” said the huntsman, “now I have bread and meat and
vegetables, but I will also have some pastry to eat like that which the
King eats.” He called the bear, and said, “Dear Bear, thou art fond of
licking anything sweet; go and bring me some confectionery, such as the
King eats.” Then the bear trotted to the palace, and every one got out
of his way, but when he went to the guard, they presented their
muskets, and would not let him go into the royal palace. But he got up
on his hind legs, and gave them a few boxes on the ears, right and
left, with his paws, so that the whole watch broke up, and then he went
straight to the King’s daughter, placed himself behind her, and growled
a little.