Now the King said to his daughter, at the royal table, “What did all
the wild animals want, which have been coming to thee, and going in and
out of my palace?” She replied, “I may not tell you, but send and have
the master of these animals brought, and you will do well.” The King
sent a servant to the inn, and invited the stranger, and the servant
came just as the huntsman had laid his wager with the innkeeper. Then
said he, “Behold, sir host, now the King sends his servant and invites
me, but I do not go in this way.” And he said to the servant, “I
request the Lord King to send me royal clothing, and a carriage with
six horses, and servants to attend me.” When the King heard the answer,
he said to his daughter, “What shall I do?” She said, “Cause him to be
fetched as he desires to be, and you will do well.” Then the King sent
royal apparel, a carriage with six horses, and servants to wait on him. When the huntsman saw them coming, he said, “Behold, sir host, now I am
fetched as I desired to be,” and he put on the royal garments, took the
handkerchief with the dragon’s tongues with him, and drove off to the
King. When the King saw him coming, he said to his daughter, “How shall
I receive him?” She answered, “Go to meet him and you will do well.”
Then the King went to meet him and led him in, and his animals
followed. The King gave him a seat near himself and his daughter, and
the marshal, as bridegroom, sat on the other side, but no longer knew
the huntsman. And now at this very moment, the seven heads of the
dragon were brought in as a spectacle, and the King said, “The seven
heads were cut off the dragon by the marshal, wherefore to-day I give
him my daughter to wife.” The the huntsman stood up, opened the seven
mouths, and said, “Where are the seven tongues of the dragon?” Then was
the marshal terrified, and grew pale and knew not what answer he should
make, and at length in his anguish he said, “Dragons have no tongues.”
The huntsman said, “Liars ought to have none, but the dragon’s tongues
are the tokens of the victor,” and he unfolded the handkerchief, and
there lay all seven inside it. And he put each tongue in the mouth to
which it belonged, and it fitted exactly. Then he took the handkerchief
on which the name of the princess was embroidered, and showed it to the
maiden, and asked to whom she had given it, and she replied, “To him
who killed the dragon.” And then he called his animals, and took the
collar off each of them and the golden clasp from the lion, and showed
them to the maiden and asked to whom they belonged.