Thereupon the two brothers went home together, and on the way told each
other their histories. And when the youngest said that he was ruler of
the whole country in the King’s stead, the other observed, “That I
remarked very well, for when I came to the town, and was taken for
thee, all royal honours were paid me; the young Queen looked on me as
her husband, and I had to eat at her side, and sleep in thy bed.” When
the other heard that, he became so jealous and angry that he drew his
sword, and struck off his brother’s head. But when he saw him lying
there dead, and saw his red blood flowing, he repented most violently:
“My brother delivered me,” cried he, “and I have killed him for it,”
and he bewailed him aloud. Then his hare came and offered to go and
bring some of the root of life, and bounded away and brought it while
yet there was time, and the dead man was brought to life again, and
knew nothing about the wound.

After this they journeyed onwards, and the youngest said, “Thou lookest
like me, hast royal apparel on as I have, and the animals follow thee
as they do me; we will go in by opposite gates, and arrive at the same
time from the two sides in the aged King’s presence.” So they
separated, and at the same time came the watchmen from the one door and
from the other, and announced that the young King and the animals had
returned from the chase. The King said, “It is not possible, the gates
lie quite a mile apart.” In the meantime, however, the two brothers
entered the courtyard of the palace from opposite sides, and both
mounted the steps. Then the King said to the daughter, “Say which is
thy husband. Each of them looks exactly like the other, I cannot tell.”
Then she was in great distress, and could not tell; but at last she
remembered the necklace which she had given to the animals, and she
sought for and found her little golden clasp on the lion, and she cried
in her delight, “He who is followed by this lion is my true husband”.
Then the young King laughed and said, “Yes, he is the right one,” and
they sat down together to table, and ate and drank, and were merry. At
night when the young King went to bed, his wife said, “Why hast thou
for these last nights always laid a two-edged sword in our bed? I
thought thou hadst a wish to kill me.” Then he knew how true his
brother had been.

61 The Little Peasant