There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich
peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant.
He had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and
yet he and his wife did so wish to have one. One day he said to her,
“Hark you, I have a good thought, there is our gossip the carpenter, he
shall make us a wooden calf, and paint it brown, so that it look like
any other, and in time it will certainly get big and be a cow.” The
woman also liked the idea, and their gossip the carpenter cut and
planed the calf, and painted it as it ought to be, and made it with its
head hanging down as if it were eating.

Next morning when the cows were being driven out, the little peasant
called the cow-herd and said, “Look, I have a little calf there, but it
is still small and has still to be carried.” The cow-herd said, “All
right, and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture, and set
it among the grass.” The little calf always remained standing like one
which was eating, and the cow-herd said, “It will soon run alone, just
look how it eats already!” At night when he was going to drive the herd
home again, he said to the calf, “If thou canst stand there and eat thy
fill, thou canst also go on thy four legs; I don’t care to drag thee
home again in my arms.” But the little peasant stood at his door, and
waited for his little calf, and when the cow-herd drove the cows
through the village, and the calf was missing, he inquired where it
was. The cow-herd answered, “It is still standing out there eating. It
would not stop and come with us.” But the little peasant said, “Oh, but
I must have my beast back again.” Then they went back to the meadow
together, but some one had stolen the calf, and it was gone. The
cow-herd said, “It must have run away.” The peasant, however, said,
“Don’t tell me that,” and led the cow-herd before the mayor, who for
his carelessness condemned him to give the peasant a cow for the calf
which had run away.