Two kings’ sons once went out in search of adventures, and fell into a
wild, disorderly way of living, so that they never came home again. The
youngest, who was called Simpleton, set out to seek his brothers, but
when at length he found them they mocked him for thinking that he with
his simplicity could get through the world, when they two could not
make their way, and yet were so much cleverer. They all three travelled
away together, and came to an ant-hill. The two elder wanted to destroy
it, to see the little ants creeping about in their terror, and carrying
their eggs away, but Simpleton said, “Leave the creatures in peace; I
will not allow you to disturb them.” Then they went onwards and came to
a lake, on which a great number of ducks were swimming. The two
brothers wanted to catch a couple and roast them, but Simpleton would
not permit it, and said, “Leave the creatures in peace, I will not
suffer you to kill them.” At length they came to a bee’s nest, in which
there was so much honey that it ran out of the trunk of the tree where
it was. The two wanted to make a fire beneath the tree, and suffocate
the bees in order to take away the honey, but Simpleton again stopped
them and said, “Leave the creatures in peace, I will not allow you to
burn them.” At length the three brothers arrived at a castle where
stone horses were standing in the stables, and no human being was to be
seen, and they went through all the halls until, quite at the end, they
came to a door in which were three locks. In the middle of the door,
however, there was a little pane, through which they could see into the
room. There they saw a little grey man, who was sitting at a table. They called him, once, twice, but he did not hear; at last they called
him for the third time, when he got up, opened the locks, and came out. He said nothing, however, but conducted them to a handsomely-spread
table, and when they had eaten and drunk, he took each of them to a
bedroom. Next morning the little grey man came to the eldest, beckoned
to him, and conducted him to a stone table, on which were inscribed
three tasks, by the performance of which the castle could be delivered. The first was that in the forest, beneath the moss, lay the princess’s
pearls, a thousand in number, which must be picked up, and if by sunset
one single pearl was wanting, he who had looked for them would be
turned into stone. The eldest went thither, and sought the whole day,
but when it came to an end, he had only found one hundred, and what was
written on the table came to pass, and he was changed into stone.