Then Simpleton without more ado went down to the fat toad, and said, “I
am to take home the most beautiful woman!” “Oh,” answered the toad,
“the most beautiful woman! She is not at hand at the moment, but still
thou shalt have her.” She gave him a yellow turnip which had been
hollowed out, to which six mice were harnessed. Then Simpleton said
quite mournfully, “What am I to do with that?” The toad answered, “Just
put one of my little toads into it.” Then he seized one at random out
of the circle, and put her into the yellow coach, but hardly was she
seated inside it than she turned into a wonderfully beautiful maiden,
and the turnip into a coach, and the six mice into horses. So he kissed
her, and drove off quickly with the horses, and took her to the King.
His brothers came afterwards; they had given themselves no trouble at
all to seek beautiful girls, but had brought with them the first
peasant women they chanced to meet. When the King saw them he said,
“After my death the kingdom belongs to my youngest son.” But the two
eldest deafened the King’s ears afresh with their clamour, “We cannot
consent to Simpleton’s being King,” and demanded that the one whose
wife could leap through a ring which hung in the centre of the hall
should have the preference. They thought, “The peasant women can do
that easily; they are strong enough, but the delicate maiden will jump
herself to death.” The aged King agreed likewise to this. Then the two
peasant women jumped, and jumped through the ring, but were so stout
that they fell, and their coarse arms and legs broke in two. And then
the pretty maiden whom Simpleton had brought with him, sprang, and
sprang through as lightly as a deer, and all opposition had to cease.
So he received the crown, and has ruled wisely for a length of time.

64 The Golden Goose

There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called
Dummling, and was despised, mocked, and put down on every occasion.

It happened that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood,
and before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a
bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst.

When he entered the forest there met him a little grey-haired old man
who bade him good-day, and said, “Do give me a piece of cake out of
your pocket, and let me have a draught of your wine; I am so hungry and
thirsty.” But the prudent youth answered, “If I give you my cake and
wine, I shall have none for myself; be off with you,” and he left the
little man standing and went on.