But when he began to hew down a tree, it was not long before he made a
false stroke, and the axe cut him in the arm, so that he had to go home
and have it bound up. And this was the little grey man’s doing.

After this the second son went into the forest, and his mother gave
him, like the eldest, a cake and a bottle of wine. The little old grey
man met him likewise, and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of
wine. But the second son, too, said with much reason, “What I give you
will be taken away from myself; be off!” and he left the little man
standing and went on. His punishment, however, was not delayed; when he
had made a few strokes at the tree he struck himself in the leg, so
that he had to be carried home.

Then Dummling said, “Father, do let me go and cut wood.” The father
answered, “Your brothers have hurt themselves with it, leave it alone,
you do not understand anything about it.” But Dummling begged so long
that at last he said, “Just go then, you will get wiser by hurting
yourself.” His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the
cinders, and with it a bottle of sour beer.

When he came to the forest the little old grey man met him likewise,
and greeting him, said, “Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out
of your bottle; I am so hungry and thirsty.” Dummling answered, “I have
only cinder-cake and sour beer; if that pleases you, we will sit down
and eat.” So they sat down, and when Dummling pulled out his
cinder-cake, it was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become
good wine. So they ate and drank, and after that the little man said,
“Since you have a good heart, and are willing to divide what you have,
I will give you good luck. There stands an old tree, cut it down, and
you will find something at the roots.” Then the little man took leave
of him.

Dummling went and cut down the tree, and when it fell there was a goose
sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold. He lifted her up, and
taking her with him, went to an inn where he thought he would stay the
night. Now the host had three daughters, who saw the goose and were
curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be, and would have
liked to have one of its golden feathers.

The eldest thought, “I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a
feather,” and as soon as Dummling had gone out she seized the goose by
the wing, but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.

The second came soon afterwards, thinking only of how she might get a
feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she
was held fast.