At last the third also came with the like intent, and the others
screamed out, “Keep away; for goodness’ sake keep away!” But she did
not understand why she was to keep away. “The others are there,” she
thought, “I may as well be there too,” and ran to them; but as soon as
she had touched her sister, she remained sticking fast to her. So they
had to spend the night with the goose.

The next morning Dummling took the goose under his arm and set out,
without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to
it. They were obliged to run after him continually, now left, now
right, just as he was inclined to go.

In the middle of the fields the parson met them, and when he saw the
procession he said, “For shame, you good-for-nothing girls, why are you
running across the fields after this young man? is that seemly?” At the
same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away,
but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast, and was himself
obliged to run behind.

Before long the sexton came by and saw his master, the parson, running
behind three girls. He was astonished at this and called out, “Hi, your
reverence, whither away so quickly? do not forget that we have a
christening to-day!” and running after him he took him by the sleeve,
but was also held fast to it.

Whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other, two labourers
came with their hoes from the fields; the parson called out to them and
begged that they would set him and the sexton free. But they had
scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast, and now there
were seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.

Soon afterwards he came to a city, where a king ruled who had a
daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh. So he had
put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh
should marry her. When Dummling heard this, he went with his goose and
all her train before the King’s daughter, and as soon as she saw the
seven people running on and on, one behind the other, she began to
laugh quite loudly, and as if she would never leave off. Thereupon
Dummling asked to have her for his wife, and the wedding was
celebrated. After the King’s death, Dummling inherited the kingdom and
lived a long time contentedly with his wife.

65 Allerleirauh