There was once a King’s son who was betrothed to a maiden whom he loved
very much. And when he was sitting beside her and very happy, news came
that his father lay sick unto death, and desired to see him once again
before his end. Then he said to his beloved, “I must now go and leave
thee, I give thee a ring as a remembrance of me. When I am King, I will
return and fetch thee.” So he rode away, and when he reached his
father, the latter was dangerously ill, and near his death. He said to
him, “Dear son, I wished to see thee once again before my end, promise
me to marry as I wish,” and he named a certain King’s daughter who was
to be his wife. The son was in such trouble that he did not think what
he was doing, and said, “Yes, dear father, your will shall be done,”
and thereupon the King shut his eyes, and died.

When therefore the son had been proclaimed King, and the time of
mourning was over, he was forced to keep the promise which he had given
his father, and caused the King’s daughter to be asked in marriage, and
she was promised to him. His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted
so much about his faithlessness that she nearly died. Then her father
said to her, “Dearest child, why art thou so sad? Thou shalt have
whatsoever thou wilt.” She thought for a moment and said, “Dear father,
I wish for eleven girls exactly like myself in face, figure, and size.”
The father said, “If it be possible, thy desire shall be fulfilled,”
and he caused a search to be made in his whole kingdom, until eleven
young maidens were found who exactly resembled his daughter in face,
figure, and size.

When they came to the King’s daughter, she had twelve suits of
huntsmen’s clothes made, all alike, and the eleven maidens had to put
on the huntsmen’s clothes, and she herself put on the twelfth suit.
Thereupon she took leave of her father, and rode away with them, and
rode to the court of her former betrothed, whom she loved so dearly.
Then she inquired if he required any huntsmen, and if he would take the
whole of them into his service. The King looked at her and did not know
her, but as they were such handsome fellows, he said, “Yes,” and that
he would willingly take them, and now they were the King’s twelve
huntsmen.