The King, however, had a lion which was a wondrous animal, for he knew
all concealed and secret things. It came to pass that one evening he
said to the King, “Thou thinkest thou hast twelve huntsmen?” “Yes,”
said the King, “they are twelve huntsmen.” The lion continued, “Thou
art mistaken, they are twelve girls.” The King said, “That cannot be
true! How wilt thou prove that to me?” “Oh, just let some peas be
strewn in thy ante-chamber,” answered the lion, “and then thou wilt
soon see it. Men have a firm step, and when they walk over the peas
none of them stir, but girls trip and skip, and drag their feet, and
the peas roll about.” The King was well pleased with the counsel, and
caused the peas to be strewn.

There was, however, a servant of the King’s who favored the huntsmen,
and when he heard that they were going to be put to this test he went
to them and repeated everything, and said, “The lion wants to make the
King believe that you are girls.” Then the King’s daughter thanked him,
and said to her maidens, “Put on some strength, and step firmly on the
peas.” So next morning when the King had the twelve huntsmen called
before him, and they came into the ante-chamber where the peas were
lying, they stepped so firmly on them, and had such a strong, sure
walk, that not one of the peas either rolled or stirred. Then they went
away again, and the King said to the lion, “Thou hast lied to me, they
walk just like men.” The lion said, “They have got to know that they
were going to be put to the test, and have assumed some strength. Just
let twelve spinning-wheels be brought into the ante-chamber some day,
and they will go to them and be pleased with them, and that is what no
man would do.” The King liked the advice, and had the spinning-wheels
placed in the ante-chamber.

But the servant, who was well disposed to the huntsmen, went to them,
and disclosed the project. Then when they were alone the King’s
daughter said to her eleven girls, “Put some constraint on yourselves,
and do not look round at the spinning-wheels.” And next morning when
the King had his twelve huntsmen summoned, they went through the
ante-chamber, and never once looked at the spinning wheels. Then the
King again said to the lion, “Thou hast deceived me, they are men, for
they have not looked at the spinning-wheels.” The lion replied, “They
have learnt that they were going to be put to the test, and have
restrained themselves.” The King, however, would no longer believe the
lion.