The twelve huntsmen always followed the King to the chase, and his
liking for them continually increased. Now it came to pass that once
when they were out hunting, news came that the King’s betrothed was
approaching. When the true bride heard that, it hurt her so much that
her heart was almost broken, and she fell fainting to the ground. The
King thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to
him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off. Then he saw the ring
which he had given to his first bride, and when he looked in her face
he recognized her. Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her,
and when she opened her eyes he said, “Thou art mine, and I am thine,
and no one in the world can alter that.” He sent a messenger to the
other bride, and entreated her to return to her own kingdom, for he had
a wife already, and a man who had just found an old dish did not
require a new one. Thereupon the wedding was celebrated, and the lion
was again taken into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.

68 The Thief and his Master

Hans wished to put his son to learn a trade, so he went into the church
and prayed to our Lord God to know which would be most advantageous for
him. Then the clerk got behind the altar, and said, “Thieving,
thieving.” On this Hans goes back to his son, and tells him he is to
learn thieving, and that the Lord God had said so. So he goes with his
son to seek a man who is acquainted with thieving. They walk a long
time and come into a great forest, where stands a little house with an
old woman in it. Hans says, “Do you know of a man who is acquainted
with thieving?” “You can learn that here quite well,” says the woman,
“my son is a master of it.” So he speaks with the son, and asks if he
knows thieving really well? The master-thief says, “I will teach him
well. Come back when a year is over, and then if you recognize your
son, I will take no payment at all for teaching him; but if you don’t
know him, you must give me two hundred thalers.”

The father goes home again, and the son learns witchcraft and thieving,
thoroughly. When the year is out, the father is full of anxiety to know
how he is to contrive to recognize his son. As he is thus going about
in his trouble, he meets a little dwarf, who says, “Man, what ails you,
that you are always in such trouble?”