The people were well pleased; for a whole night they did not sleep, and
listened with great delight as the cock at two, four, and six o’clock,
loudly and clearly proclaimed the time. They asked if the creature were
for sale, and how much he wanted for it? “About as much gold as an ass
can carry,” answered he. “A ridiculously small price for such a
precious creature!” they cried unanimously, and willingly gave him what
he had asked.

When he came home with his wealth his brothers were astonished, and the
second said, “Well, I will go forth and see whether I cannot get rid of
my scythe as profitably.” But it did not look as if he would, for
labourers met him everywhere, and they had scythes upon their shoulders
as well as he.

At last, however, he chanced upon an island where the people knew
nothing of scythes. When the corn was ripe there, they took cannon out
to the fields and shot it down. Now this was rather an uncertain
affair; many shot right over it, others hit the ears instead of the
stems, and shot them away, whereby much was lost, and besides all this,
it made a terrible noise. So the man set to work and mowed it down so
quietly and quickly that the people opened their mouths with
astonishment. They agreed to give him what he wanted for the scythe,
and he received a horse laden with as much gold as it could carry.

And now the third brother wanted to take his cat to the right man. He
fared just like the others; so long as he stayed on the mainland there
was nothing to be done. Every place had cats, and there were so many of
them that new-born kittens were generally drowned in the ponds.

At last he sailed over to an island, and it luckily happened that no
cats had ever yet been seen there, and that the mice had got the upper
hand so much that they danced upon the tables and benches whether the
master were at home or not. The people complained bitterly of the
plague; the King himself in his palace did not know how to secure
himself against them; mice squeaked in every corner, and gnawed
whatever they could lay hold of with their teeth. But now the cat began
her chase, and soon cleared a couple of rooms, and the people begged
the King to buy the wonderful beast for the country. The King willingly
gave what was asked, which was a mule laden with gold, and the third
brother came home with the greatest treasure of all.