And the King sent two waiting-maids and two attendants into the tower,
to fetch the Queen and bring her to the royal table. But when she was
led in she ate nothing, and said, “The gracious and merciful God who
has supported me in the tower, will speedily deliver me.” She lived
three days more, and then died happily, and when she was buried, the
two white doves which had brought her food to the tower, and were
angels of heaven, followed her body and seated themselves on her grave.
The aged King ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief
consumed the King’s own heart, and he soon died. His son married the
beautiful maiden whom he had brought with him as a flower in his
pocket, and whether they are still alive or not, is known to God.

77 Clever Grethel

There was once a cook named Grethel, who wore shoes with red rosettes,
and when she walked out with them on, she turned herself this way and
that, and thought, “You certainly are a pretty girl!” And when she came
home she drank, in her gladness of heart, a draught of wine, and as
wine excites a desire to eat, she tasted the best of whatever she was
cooking until she was satisfied, and said, “The cook must know what the
food is like.”

It came to pass that the master one day said to her, “Grethel, there is
a guest coming this evening; prepare me two fowls very daintily.” “I
will see to it, master,” answered Grethel. She killed two fowls,
scalded them, plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening
set them before the fire, that they might roast. The fowls began to
turn brown, and were nearly ready, but the guest had not yet arrived.
Then Grethel called out to her master, “If the guest does not come, I
must take the fowls away from the fire, but it will be a sin and a
shame if they are not eaten directly, when they are juiciest.” The
master said, “I will run myself, and fetch the guest.” When the master
had turned his back, Grethel laid the spit with the fowls on one side,
and thought, “Standing so long by the fire there, makes one hot and
thirsty; who knows when they will come? Meanwhile, I will run into the
cellar, and take a drink.” She ran down, set a jug, said, “God bless it
to thy use, Grethel,” and took a good drink, and took yet another
hearty draught.