Once upon a time the little hen went with the little cock to the
nut-hill, and they agreed together that whichsoever of them found a
kernel of a nut should share it with the other. Then the hen found a
large, large nut, but said nothing about it, intending to eat the
kernel herself. The kernel, however, was so large that she could not
swallow it, and it remained sticking in her throat, so that she was
alarmed lest she should be choked. Then she cried, “Cock, I entreat
thee to run as fast thou canst, and fetch me some water, or I shall
choke.” The little cock did run as fast as he could to the spring, and
said, “Stream, thou art to give me some water; the little hen is lying
on the nut-hill, and she has swallowed a large nut, and is choking.”
The well answered, “First run to the bride, and get her to give thee
some red silk.” The little cock ran to the bride and said, “Bride, you
are to give me some red silk; I want to give red silk to the well, the
well is to give me some water, I am to take the water to the little hen
who is lying on the nut-hill and has swallowed a great nut-kernel, and
is choking with it.” The bride answered, “First run and bring me my
little wreath which is hanging to a willow.” So the little cock ran to
the willow, and drew the wreath from the branch and took it to the
bride, and the bride gave him some water for it. Then the little cock
took the water to the hen, but when he got there the hen had choked in
the meantime, and lay there dead and motionless. Then the cock was so
distressed that he cried aloud, and every animal came to lament the
little hen, and six mice built a little carriage to carry her to her
grave, and when the carriage was ready they harnessed themselves to it,
and the cock drove. On the way, however, they met the fox, who said,
“Where art thou going, little cock?” “I am going to bury my little
hen.” “May I drive with thee?” “Yes, but seat thyself at the back of
the carriage, for in the front my little horses could not drag thee.”
Then the fox seated himself at the back, and after that the wolf, the
bear, the stag, the lion, and all the beasts of the forest did the
same. Then the procession went onwards, and they reached the stream. “How are we to get over?” said the little cock. A straw was lying by
the stream, and it said, “I will lay myself across, and you shall drive
over me.” But when the six mice came to the bridge, the straw slipped
and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.