Then St. Peter went a different road, but Brother Lustig thought, “It
is a good thing that he has taken himself off, he is certainly a
strange saint, after all.” Then he had money enough, but did not know
how to manage it, squandered it, gave it away, and and when some time
had gone by, once more had nothing. Then he arrived in a certain
country where he heard that a King’s daughter was dead. “Oh, ho!”
thought he, “that may be a good thing for me; I will bring her to life
again, and see that I am paid as I ought to be.” So he went to the
King, and offered to raise the dead girl to life again. Now the King
had heard that a discharged soldier was traveling about and bringing
dead persons to life again, and thought that Brother Lustig was the
man; but as he had no confidence in him, he consulted his councillors
first, who said that he might give it a trial as his daughter was dead. Then Brother Lustig ordered water to be brought to him in a kettle,
bade every one go out, cut the limbs off, threw them in the water and
lighted a fire beneath, just as he had seen St. Peter do. The water
began to boil, the flesh fell off, and then he took the bones out and
laid them on the table, but he did not know the order in which to lay
them, and placed them all wrong and in confusion. Then he stood before
them and said, “In the name of the most holy Trinity, dead maiden, I
bid thee arise,” and he said this thrice, but the bones did not stir. So he said it thrice more, but also in vain: “Confounded girl that you
are, get up!” cried he, “Get up, or it shall be worse for you!” When he
had said that, St. Peter suddenly appeared in his former shape as a
discharged soldier; he entered by the window and said, “Godless man,
what art thou doing? How can the dead maiden arise, when thou hast
thrown about her bones in such confusion?” “Dear brother, I have done
everything to the best of my ability,” he answered. “This once, I will
help thee out of thy difficulty, but one thing I tell thee, and that is
that if ever thou undertakest anything of the kind again, it will be
the worse for thee, and also that thou must neither demand nor accept
the smallest thing from the King for this!” Thereupon St. Peter laid
the bones in their right order, said to the maiden three times, “In the
name of the most holy Trinity, dead maiden, arise,” and the King’s
daughter arose, healthy and beautiful as before. Then St. Peter went
away again by the window, and Brother Lustig was rejoiced to find that
all had passed off so well, but was very much vexed to think that after
all he was not to take anything for it.