“Leave it alone,” said the host, “it will cost you your neck.” “It
won’t kill me at once,” said Brother Lustig, “just give me the key, and
some good food and wine.” So the host gave him the key, and food and
wine, and with this Brother Lustig went into the castle, enjoyed his
supper, and at length, as he was sleepy, he lay down on the ground, for
there was no bed. He soon fell asleep, but during the night was
disturbed by a great noise, and when he awoke, he saw nine ugly devils
in the room, who had made a circle, and were dancing around him. Brother Lustig said, “Well, dance as long as you like, but none of you
must come too close.” But the devils pressed continually nearer to him,
and almost stepped on his face with their hideous feet. “Stop, you
devils’ ghosts,” said he, but they behaved still worse. Then Brother
Lustig grew angry, and cried, “Hola! but I will soon make it quiet,”
and got the leg of a chair and struck out into the midst of them with
it. But nine devils against one soldier were still too many, and when
he struck those in front of him, the others seized him behind by the
hair, and tore it unmercifully. “Devils’ crew,” cried he, “it is
getting too bad, but wait. Into my knapsack, all nine of you!” In an
instant they were in it, and then he buckled it up and threw it into a
corner. After this all was suddenly quiet, and Brother Lustig lay down
again, and slept till it was bright day. Then came the inn-keeper, and
the nobleman to whom the castle belonged, to see how he had fared; but
when they perceived that he was merry and well they were astonished,
and asked, “Have the spirits done you no harm, then?” “The reason why
they have not,” answered Brother Lustig, “is because I have got the
whole nine of them in my knapsack! You may once more inhabit your
castle quite tranquilly, none of them will ever haunt it again.” The
nobleman thanked him, made him rich presents, and begged him to remain
in his service, and he would provide for him as long as he lived. “No,”
replied Brother Lustig, “I am used to wandering about, I will travel
farther.” Then he went away, and entered into a smithy, laid the
knapsack, which contained the nine devils on the anvil, and asked the
smith and his apprentices to strike it. So they smote with their great
hammers with all their strength, and the devils uttered howls which
were quite pitiable. When he opened the knapsack after this, eight of
them were dead, but one which had been lying in a fold of it, was still
alive, slipped out, and went back again to hell.