The fox once came to a meadow in which was a flock of fine fat geese,
on which he smiled and said, “I come in the nick of time, you are
sitting together quite beautifully, so that I can eat you up one after
the other.” The geese cackled with terror, sprang up, and began to wail
and beg piteously for their lives. But the fox would listen to nothing,
and said, “There is no mercy to be had! You must die.” At length one of
them took heart and said, “If we poor geese are to yield up our
vigorous young lives, show us the only possible favour and allow us one
more prayer, that we may not die in our sins, and then we will place
ourselves in a row, so that you can always pick yourself out the
fattest.” “Yes,” said the fox, “that is reasonable, and a pious
request. Pray away, I will wait till you are done.” Then the first
began a good long prayer, for ever saying, “Ga! Ga!” and as she would
make no end, the second did not wait until her turn came, but began
also, “Ga! Ga!” The third and fourth followed her, and soon they were
all cackling together.

When they have done praying, the story shall be continued further, but
at present they are still praying without stopping.”

87 The Poor Man and the Rich Man

In olden times, when the Lord himself still used to walk about on this
earth amongst men, it once happened that he was tired and overtaken by
the darkness before he could reach an inn. Now there stood on the road
before him two houses facing each other; the one large and beautiful,
the other small and poor. The large one belonged to a rich man, and the
small one to a poor man.

Then the Lord thought, “I shall be no burden to the rich man, I will
stay the night with him.” When the rich man heard some one knocking at
his door, he opened the window and asked the stranger what he wanted.
The Lord answered, “I only ask for a night’s lodging.”

Then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot, and as the
Lord was wearing common clothes, and did not look like one who had much
money in his pocket, he shook his head, and said, “No, I cannot take
you in, my rooms are full of herbs and seeds; and if I were to lodge
everyone who knocked at my door, I might very soon go begging myself.
Go somewhere else for a lodging,” and with this he shut down the window
and left the Lord standing there.