So the Lord turned his back on the rich man, and went across to the
small house and knocked. He had hardly done so when the poor man opened
the little door and bade the traveler come in. “Pass the night with me,
it is already dark,” said he; “you cannot go any further to-night.”
This pleased the Lord, and he went in. The poor man’s wife shook hands
with him, and welcomed him, and said he was to make himself at home and
put up with what they had got; they had not much to offer him, but what
they had they would give him with all their hearts. Then she put the
potatoes on the fire, and while they were boiling, she milked the goat,
that they might have a little milk with them. When the cloth was laid,
the Lord sat down with the man and his wife, and he enjoyed their
coarse food, for there were happy faces at the table. When they had had
supper and it was bed-time, the woman called her husband apart and
said, “Hark you, dear husband, let us make up a bed of straw for
ourselves to-night, and then the poor traveler can sleep in our bed and
have a good rest, for he has been walking the whole day through, and
that makes one weary.” “With all my heart,” he answered, “I will go and
offer it to him;” and he went to the stranger and invited him, if he
had no objection, to sleep in their bed and rest his limbs properly.
But the Lord was unwilling to take their bed from the two old folks;
however, they would not be satisfied, until at length he did it and lay
down in their bed, while they themselves lay on some straw on the
ground.

Next morning they got up before daybreak, and made as good a breakfast
as they could for the guest. When the sun shone in through the little
window, and the Lord had got up, he again ate with them, and then
prepared to set out on his journey.

But as he was standing at the door he turned round and said, “As you
are so kind and good, you may wish three things for yourselves and I
will grant them.” Then the man said, “What else should I wish for but
eternal happiness, and that we two, as long as we live, may be healthy
and have every day our daily bread; for the third wish, I do not know
what to have.” And the Lord said to him, “Will you wish for a new house
instead of this old one?” “Oh, yes,” said the man; “if I can have that,
too, I should like it very much.” And the Lord fulfilled his wish, and
changed their old house into a new one, again gave them his blessing,
and went on.