The sun was high when the rich man got up and leaned out of his window
and saw, on the opposite side of the way, a new clean-looking house
with red tiles and bright windows where the old hut used to be. He was
very much astonished, and called his wife and said to her, “Tell me,
what can have happened? Last night there was a miserable little hut
standing there, and to-day there is a beautiful new house. Run over and
see how that has come to pass.”

So his wife went and asked the poor man, and he said to her, “Yesterday
evening a traveler came here and asked for a night’s lodging, and this
morning when he took leave of us he granted us three wishes—eternal
happiness, health during this life and our daily bread as well, and
besides this, a beautiful new house instead of our old hut.”

When the rich man’s wife heard this, she ran back in haste and told her
husband how it had happened. The man said, “I could tear myself to
pieces! If I had but known that! That traveler came to our house too,
and wanted to sleep here, and I sent him away.” “Quick!” said his wife,
“get on your horse. You can still catch the man up, and then you must
ask to have three wishes granted to you.”

The rich man followed the good counsel and galloped away on his horse,
and soon came up with the Lord. He spoke to him softly and pleasantly,
and begged him not to take it amiss that he had not let him in
directly; he was looking for the front-door key, and in the meantime
the stranger had gone away, if he returned the same way he must come
and stay with him. “Yes,” said the Lord; “if I ever come back again, I
will do so.” Then the rich man asked if might not wish for three things
too, as his neighbor had done? “Yes,” said the Lord, he might, but it
would not be to his advantage, and he had better not wish for anything;
but the rich man thought that he could easily ask for something which
would add to his happiness, if he only knew that it would be granted.
So the Lord said to him, “Ride home, then, and three wishes which you
shall form, shall be fulfilled.”