The farmer was alarmed, and said, “No, thou art not my son; I don’t
want thee leave me!” “Truly I am your son; allow me to do your work, I
can plough as well as you, nay better.” “No, no, thou art not my son;
and thou canst not plough go away!” However, as he was afraid of this
great man, he left go of the plough, stepped back and stood at one side
of the piece of land. Then the youth took the plough, and just pressed
it with one hand, but his grasp was so strong that the plough went deep
into the earth. The farmer could not bear to see that, and called to
him, “If thou art determined to plough, thou must not press so hard on
it, that makes bad work.” The youth, however, unharnessed the horses,
and drew the plough himself, saying, “Just go home, father, and bid my
mother make ready a large dish of food, and in the meantime I will go
over the field.” Then the farmer went home, and ordered his wife to
prepare the food; but the youth ploughed the field which was two acres
large, quite alone, and then he harnessed himself to the harrow, and
harrowed the whole of the land, using two harrows at once. When he had
done it, he went into the forest, and pulled up two oak-trees, laid
them across his shoulders, and hung on them one harrow behind and one
before, and also one horse behind and one before, and carried all as if
it had been a bundle of straw, to his parents’ house. When he entered
the yard, his mother did not recognize him, and asked, “Who is that
horrible tall man?” The farmer said, “That is our son.” She said, “No
that cannot be our son, we never had such a tall one, ours was a little
thing.” She called to him, “Go away, we do not want thee!” The youth
was silent, but led his horses to the stable, gave them some oats and
hay, and all that they wanted. When he had done this, he went into the
parlour, sat down on the bench and said, “Mother, now I should like
something to eat, will it soon be ready?” Then she said, “Yes,” and
brought in two immense dishes full of food, which would have been
enough to satisfy herself and her husband for a week. The youth,
however, ate the whole of it himself, and asked if she had nothing more
to set before him. “No,” she replied, “that is all we have.” “But that
was only a taste, I must have more.” She did not dare to oppose him,
and went and put a huge caldron full of food on the fire, and when it
was ready, carried it in. “At length come a few crumbs,” said he, and
ate all there was, but it was still not sufficient to appease his
hunger.