When
he was over, he said to the others, “There, you see, I have got over
quicker than you,” and drove on, and the others had to stay where they
were. In the yard, however, he took a tree in his hand, showed it to
the bailiff, and said, “Isn’t that a fine bundle of wood?” Then said
the bailiff to his wife, “The servant is a good one, if he does sleep
long, he is still home before the others.” So he served the bailiff for
a year, and when that was over, and the other servants were getting
their wages, he said it was time for him to take his too. The bailiff,
however, was afraid of the blows which he was to receive, and earnestly
entreated him to excuse him from having them; for rather than that, he
himself would be head-servant, and the youth should be bailiff. “No,”
said he, “I will not be a bailiff, I am head-servant, and will remain
so, but I will administer that which we agreed on.” The bailiff was
willing to give him whatsoever he demanded, but it was of no use, the
head-servant said no to everything. Then the bailiff did not know what
to do, and begged for a fortnight’s delay, for he wanted to find some
way of escape. The head-servant consented to this delay. The bailiff
summoned all his clerks together, and they were to think the matter
over, and give him advice. The clerks pondered for a long time, but at
last they said that no one was sure of his life with the head-servant,
for he could kill a man as easily as a midge, and that the bailiff
ought to make him get into the well and clean it, and when he was down
below, they would roll up one of the mill-stones which was lying there,
and throw it on his head; and then he would never return to daylight. The advice pleased the bailiff, and the head-servant was quite willing
to go down the well. When he was standing down below at the bottom,
they rolled down the largest mill-stone and thought they had broken his
skull, but he cried, “Chase away those hens from the well, they are
scratching in the sand up there, and throwing the grains into my eyes,
so that I can’t see.” So the bailiff cried, “Sh-sh,” and pretended to
frighten the hens away. When the head-servant had finished his work, he
climbed up and said, “Just look what a beautiful neck-tie I have on,”
and behold it was the mill-stone which he was wearing round his neck. The head-servant now wanted to take his reward, but the bailiff again
begged for a fortnight’s delay. The clerks met together and advised him
to send the head-servant to the haunted mill to grind corn by night,
for from thence as yet no man had ever returned in the morning alive.