The proposal pleased the bailiff, he called the head-servant that very
evening, and ordered him to take eight bushels of corn to the mill, and
grind it that night, for it was wanted. So the head-servant went to the
loft, and put two bushels in his right pocket, and two in his left, and
took four in a wallet, half on his back, and half on his breast, and
thus laden went to the haunted mill. The miller told him that he could
grind there very well by day, but not by night, for the mill was
haunted, and that up to the present time whosoever had gone into it at
night had been found in the morning lying dead inside. He said, “I will
manage it, just you go away to bed.” Then he went into the mill, and
poured out the corn. About eleven o’clock he went into the miller’s
room, and sat down on the bench. When he had sat there a while, a door
suddenly opened, and a large table came in, and on the table, wine and
roasted meats placed themselves, and much good food besides, but
everything came of itself, for no one was there to carry it. After this
the chairs pushed themselves up, but no people came, until all at once
he beheld fingers, which handled knives and forks, and laid food on the
plates, but with this exception he saw nothing. As he was hungry, and
saw the food, he, too, place himself at the table, ate with those who
were eating and enjoyed it. When he had had enough, and the others also
had quite emptied their dishes, he distinctly heard all the candles
being suddenly snuffed out, and as it was now pitch dark, he felt
something like a box on the ear. Then he said, “If anything of that
kind comes again, I shall strike out in return.” And when he had
received a second box on the ear, he, too struck out. And so it
continued the whole night. He took nothing without returning it, but
repaid everything with interest, and did not lay about him in vain. At
daybreak, however, everything ceased. When the miller had got up, he
wanted to look after him, and wondered if he were still alive. Then the
youth said, “I have eaten my fill, have received some boxes on the
ears, but I have given some in return.” The miller rejoiced, and said
that the mill was now released from the spell, and wanted to give him
much money as a reward. But he said, “Money, I will not have, I have
enough of it.” So he took his meal on his back, went home, and told the
bailiff that he had done what he had been told to do, and would now
have the reward agreed on. When the bailiff heard that, he was
seriously alarmed and quite beside himself; he walked backwards and
forwards in the room, and drops of perspiration ran down from his
forehead.