“Oh, very badly,” said he, and then they lamented their misfortune
together, but they said nothing about it to the youngest, for they did
not like him at all, and always called him Stupid Hans, because he did
not exactly belong to the forest. On the third day, the youngest stayed
at home, and again the little mannikin came and begged for a piece of
bread. When the youth gave it to him, the elf let it fall as before,
and asked him to be so good as to give him that piece again. Then said
Hans to the little mannikin, “What! canst thou not pick up that piece
thyself? If thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily
bread, thou dost not deserve to have it.” Then the mannikin grew very
angry and said he was to do it, but the huntsman would not, and took my
dear mannikin, and gave him a thorough beating. Then the mannikin
screamed terribly, and cried, “Stop, stop, and let me go, and I will
tell thee where the King’s daughters are.” When Hans heard that, he
left off beating him and the mannikin told him that he was an earth
mannikin, and that there were more than a thousand like him, and that
if he would go with him he would show him where the King’s daughters
were. Then he showed him a deep well, but there was no water in it. And
the elf said that he knew well that the companions Hans had with him
did not intend to deal honourably with him, therefore if he wished to
deliver the King’s children, he must do it alone. The two other
brothers would also be very glad to recover the King’s daughters, but
they did not want to have any trouble or danger. Hans was therefore to
take a large basket, and he must seat himself in it with his hanger and
a bell, and be let down. Below were three rooms, and in each of them
was a princess, with a many-headed dragon, whose heads she was to comb
and trim, but he must cut them off. And having said all this, the elf
vanished. When it was evening the two brothers came and asked how he
had got on, and he said, “pretty well so far,” and that he had seen no
one except at mid-day when a little mannikin had come and begged for a
piece of bread, that he had given some to him, but that the mannikin
had let it fall and had asked him to pick it up again; but as he did
not choose to do that, the elf had begun to lose his temper, and that
he had done what he ought not, and had given the elf a beating, on
which he had told him where the King’s daughters were. Then the two
were so angry at this that they grew green and yellow.