Next morning
they went to the well together, and drew lots who should first seat
himself in the basket, and again the lot fell on the eldest, and he was
to seat himself in it, and take the bell with him. Then he said, “If I
ring, you must draw me up again immediately.” When he had gone down for
a short distance, he rang, and they at once drew him up again. Then the
second seated himself in the basket, but he did just the same as the
first, and then it was the turn of the youngest, but he let himself be
lowered quite to the bottom. When he had got out of the basket, he took
his hanger, and went and stood outside the first door and listened, and
heard the dragon snoring quite loudly. He opened the door slowly, and
one of the princesses was sitting there, and had nine dragon’s heads
lying upon her lap, and was combing them. Then he took his hanger and
hewed at them, and the nine fell off. The princess sprang up, threw her
arms round his neck, embraced and kissed him repeatedly, and took her
stomacher, which was made of pure gold, and hung it round his neck. Then he went to the second princess, who had a dragon with five heads
to comb, and delivered her also, and to the youngest, who had a dragon
with four heads, he went likewise. And they all rejoiced, and embraced
him and kissed him without stopping. Then he rang very loud, so that
those above heard him, and he placed the princesses one after the other
in the basket, and had them all drawn up, but when it came to his own
turn he remembered the words of the elf, who had told him that his
comrades did not mean well by him. So he took a great stone which was
lying there, and placed it in the basket, and when it was about half
way up, his false brothers above cut the rope, so that the basket with
the stone fell to the ground, and they thought that he was dead, and
ran away with the three princesses, making them promise to tell their
father that it was they who had delivered them, and then they went to
the King, and each demanded a princess in marriage.