Then he led her out of the town into the field, and showed her the
stream where the little boat had been pushed off, and then he said, “I
am tired; sit down, I will sleep awhile on thy lap.” And he laid his
head on her lap, and fell asleep. When he was asleep, she first drew
the ring from his finger, then she drew away the foot which was under
him, leaving only the slipper behind her, and she took her child in her
arms, and wished herself back in her own kingdom. When he awoke, there
he lay quite deserted, and his wife and child were gone, and so was the
ring from his finger, the slipper only was still there as a token. “Home to thy parents thou canst not return,” thought he, “they would
say that thou wast a wizard; thou must be off, and walk on until thou
arrivest in thine own kingdom.” So he went away and came at length to a
hill by which three giants were standing, disputing with each other
because they did not know how to divide their father’s property. When
they saw him passing by, they called to him and said little men had
quick wits, and that he was to divide their inheritance for them. The
inheritance, however, consisted of a sword, which had this property
that if any one took it in his hand, and said, “All heads off but
mine,” every head would lie on the ground; secondly, of a cloak which
made any one who put it on invisible; thirdly, of a pair of boots which
could transport the wearer to any place he wished in a moment. He said,
“Give me the three things that I may see if they are still in good
condition.” They gave him the cloak, and when he had put it on, he was
invisible and changed into a fly. Then he resumed his own form and
said, “The cloak is a good one, now give me the sword.” They said, “No,
we will not give thee that; if thou were to say, All heads off but
mine,’ all our heads would be off, and thou alone wouldst be left with
thine.” Nevertheless they gave it to him with the condition that he was
only to try it against a tree. This he did, and the sword cut in two
the trunk of a tree as if it had been a blade of straw. Then he wanted
to have the boots likewise, but they said, “No, we will not give them;
if thou hadst them on thy feet and wert to wish thyself at the top of
the hill, we should be left down here with nothing.” “Oh, no,” said he,
“I will not do that.” So they gave him the boots as well.