At two o’clock the raven came driving up with four white horses, but
she was already in deep grief and said, “I know he is asleep.” And when
she came into the garden, he was indeed lying there asleep on the heap
of tan. She alighted from the carriage, went to him, shook him, and
called him, but he did not awake. Next day about noon, the old woman
came again and brought him food and drink, but he would not take any of
it. But she let him have no rest and persuaded him until at length he
again took one drink out of the glass. Towards two o’clock he went into
the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven, but all at once felt
such a great weariness that his limbs would no longer support him. He
could not help himself, and was forced to lie down, and fell into a
heavy sleep. When the raven drove up with four brown horses, she was
already full of grief, and said, “I know he is asleep.” She went to
him, but there he lay sleeping, and there was no wakening him. Next day
the old woman asked what was the meaning of this? He was neither eating
nor drinking anything; did he want to die? He replied, “I am not
allowed to eat or drink, and will not do so.” But she set a dish with
food, and a glass with wine before him, and when he smelt it he could
not resist, and swallowed a deep draught. When the time came, he went
out into the garden to the heap of tan, and waited for the King’s
daughter; but he became still more weary than on the day before, and
lay down and slept as soundly as if he had been a stone. At two o’clock
the raven came with four black horses, and the coachman and everything
else was black. She was already in the deepest grief, and said, “I know
that he is asleep and cannot deliver me.” When she came to him, there
he was lying fast asleep. She shook him and called him, but she could
not waken him. Then she laid a loaf beside him, and after that a piece
of meat, and thirdly a bottle of wine, and he might consume as much of
all of them as he liked, but they would never grow less. After this she
took a gold ring from her finger, and put it on his, and her name was
graven on it.