At length he ventured it and went in. When the giant saw him, he said,
“It is well that thou comest, for it is long since I have eaten; I will
at once eat thee for my supper.” “I’d rather you would leave that
alone,” said the man, “I do not like to be eaten; but if thou hast any
desire to eat, I have quite enough here to satisfy thee.” “If that be
true,” said the giant, “thou mayst be easy, I was only going to devour
thee because I had nothing else.” Then they went, and sat down to the
table, and the man took out the bread, wine, and meat which would never
come to an end. “This pleases me well,” said the giant, and ate to his
heart’s content. Then the man said to him, “Canst thou tell me where
the golden castle of Stromberg is?” The giant said, “I will look at my
map; all the towns, and villages, and houses are to be found on it.” He
brought out the map which he had in the room and looked for the castle,
but it was not to be found on it. “It’s no matter!” said he, “I have
some still larger maps in my cupboard upstairs, and we will look in
them.” But there, too, it was in vain. The man now wanted to go
onwards, but the giant begged him to wait a few days longer until his
brother, who had gone out to bring some provisions, came home. When the
brother came home they inquired about the golden castle of Stromberg. He replied, “When I have eaten and have had enough, I will look in the
map.” Then he went with them up to his chamber, and they searched in
his map, but could not find it. Then he brought out still older maps,
and they never rested until they found the golden castle of Stromberg,
but it was many thousand miles away. “How am I to get there?” asked the
man. The giant said, “I have two hours’ time, during which I will carry
you into the neighbourhood, but after that I must be at home to suckle
the child that we have.” So the giant carried the man to about a
hundred leagues from the castle, and said, “Thou canst very well walk
the rest of the way alone.” And he turned back, but the man went
onwards day and night, until at length he came to the golden castle of
Stromberg. It stood on a glass-mountain, and the bewitched maiden drove
in her carriage round the castle, and then went inside it. He rejoiced
when he saw her and wanted to climb up to her, but when he began to do
so he always slipped down the glass again.