And when he saw that he
could not reach her, he was filled with trouble, and said to himself,
“I will stay down here below, and wait for her.” So he built himself a
hut and stayed in it for a whole year, and every day saw the King’s
daughter driving about above, but never could go to her. Then one day
he saw from his hut three robbers who were beating each other, and
cried to them, “God be with ye!” They stopped when they heard the cry,
but as they saw no one, they once more began to beat each other, and
that too most dangerously. So he again cried, “God be with ye!” Again
they stopped, looked round about, but as they saw no one they went on
beating each other. Then he cried for the third time, “God be with ye,”
and thought, “I must see what these three are about,” and went thither
and asked why they were beating each other so furiously. One of them
said that he found a stick, and that when he struck a door with it,
that door would spring open. The next said that he had found a mantle,
and that whenever he put it on, he was invisible, but the third said he
had found a horse on which a man could ride everywhere, even up the
glass-mountain. And now they did not know whether they ought to have
these things in common, or whether they ought to divide them. Then the
man said, “I will give you something in exchange for these three
things. Money indeed have I not, but I have other things of more value;
but first I must try yours to see if you have told the truth.” Then
they put him on the horse, threw the mantle round him, and gave him the
stick in his hand, and when he had all these things they were no longer
able to see him. So he gave them some vigorous blows and cried, “Now,
vagabonds, you have got what you deserve, are you satisfied?” And he
rode up the glass-mountain, but when he came in front of the castle at
the top, it was shut. Then he struck the door with his stick, and it
sprang open immediately. He went in and ascended the stairs until he
came to the hall where the maiden was sitting with a golden cup full of
wine before her. She, however, could not see him because he had the
mantle on. And when he came up to her, he drew from his finger the ring
which she had given him, and threw it into the cup so that it rang. Then she cried, “That is my ring, so the man who is to set me free must
be here.” They searched the whole castle and did not find him, but he
had gone out, and had seated himself on the horse and thrown off the
mantle.