Once upon a time lived a peasant and his wife, and the parson of the
village had a fancy for the wife, and had wished for a long while to
spend a whole day happily with her. The peasant woman, too, was quite
willing. One day, therefore, he said to the woman, “Listen, my dear
friend, I have now thought of a way by which we can for once spend a
whole day happily together. I’ll tell you what; on Wednesday, you must
take to your bed, and tell your husband you are ill, and if you only
complain and act being ill properly, and go on doing so until Sunday
when I have to preach, I will then say in my sermon that whosoever has
at home a sick child, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a
sick mother, a sick brother or whosoever else it may be, and makes a
pilgrimage to the Göckerli hill in Italy, where you can get a peck of
laurel-leaves for a kreuzer, the sick child, the sick husband, the sick
wife, the sick father, or sick mother, the sick sister, or whosoever
else it may be, will be restored to health immediately.”

“I will manage it,” said the woman promptly. Now therefore on the
Wednesday, the peasant woman took to her bed, and complained and
lamented as agreed on, and her husband did everything for her that he
could think of, but nothing did her any good, and when Sunday came the
woman said, “I feel as ill as if I were going to die at once, but there
is one thing I should like to do before my end I should like to hear
the parson’s sermon that he is going to preach to-day.” On that the
peasant said, “Ah, my child, do not do it—thou mightest make thyself
worse if thou wert to get up. Look, I will go to the sermon, and will
attend to it very carefully, and will tell thee everything the parson
says.”

“Well,” said the woman, “go, then, and pay great attention, and repeat
to me all that thou hearest.” So the peasant went to the sermon, and
the parson began to preach and said, if any one had at home a sick
child, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father a sick mother, a sick
sister, brother or any one else, and would make a pilgrimage to the
Göckerli hill in Italy, where a peck of laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer,
the sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick
sister, brother, or whosoever else it might be, would be restored to
health instantly, and whosoever wished to undertake the journey was to
go to him after the service was over, and he would give him the sack
for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer.