Then no one was more rejoiced than the peasant, and after the service
was over, he went at once to the parson, who gave him the bag for the
laurel-leaves and the kreuzer. After that he went home, and even at the
house door he cried, “Hurrah! dear wife, it is now almost the same
thing as if thou wert well! The parson has preached to-day that
whosoever had at home a sick child, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick
father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother or whoever it might be,
and would make a pilgrimage to the Göckerli hill in Italy, where a peck
of laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer, the sick child, sick husband, sick
wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or whosoever else
it was, would be cured immediately, and now I have already got the bag
and the kreuzer from the parson, and will at once begin my journey so
that thou mayst get well the faster,” and thereupon he went away. He
was, however, hardly gone before the woman got up, and the parson was
there directly.

But now we will leave these two for a while, and follow the peasant,
who walked on quickly without stopping, in order to get the sooner to
the Göckerli hill, and on his way he met his gossip. His gossip was an
egg-merchant, and was just coming from the market, where he had sold
his eggs. “May you be blessed,” said the gossip, “where are you off to
so fast?”

“To all eternity, my friend,” said the peasant, “my wife is ill, and I
have been to-day to hear the parson’s sermon, and he preached that if
any one had in his house a sick child, a sick husband, a sick wife, a
sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother or any one else, and
made a pilgrimage to the Göckerli hill in Italy, where a peck of
laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer, the sick child, the sick husband, the
sick wife, the sick father, the sick mother, the sick sister, brother
or whosoever else it was, would be cured immediately, and so I have got
the bag for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer from the parson, and now
I am beginning my pilgrimage.” “But listen, gossip,” said the
egg-merchant to the peasant, “are you, then, stupid enough to believe
such a thing as that? Don’t you know what it means? The parson wants to
spend a whole day alone with your wife in peace, so he has given you
this job to do to get you out of the way.”

“My word!” said the peasant. “How I’d like to know if that’s true!”

“Come, then,” said the gossip, “I’ll tell you what to do. Get into my
egg-basket and I will carry you home, and then you will see for
yourself.” So that was settled, and the gossip put the peasant into his
egg-basket and carried him home.