About a thousand or more years ago, there were in this country nothing
but small kings, and one of them who lived on the Keuterberg was very
fond of hunting. Once on a time when he was riding forth from his
castle with his huntsmen, three girls were watching their cows upon the
mountain, and when they saw the King with all his followers, the eldest
girl pointed to him, and called to the two other girls, “If I do not
get that one, I will have none.” Then the second girl answered from the
other side of the hill, and pointed to the one who was on the King’s
right hand, “Hilloa! hilloa! If I do not get him, I will have no one.”
These, however, were the two ministers. The King heard all this, and
when he had come back from the chase, he caused the three girls to be
brought to him, and asked them what they had said yesterday on the
mountain. This they would not tell him, so the King asked the eldest if
she really would take him for her husband? Then she said, “Yes,” and
the two ministers married the two sisters, for they were all three fair
and beautiful of face, especially the Queen, who had hair like flax.
But the two sisters had no children, and once when the King was obliged
to go from home he invited them to come to the Queen in order to cheer
her, for she was about to bear a child. She had a little boy who
brought a bright red star into the world with him. Then the two sisters
said to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the
water. When they had thrown him in (I believe it was into the Weser) a
little bird flew up into the air, which sang,

“To thy death art thou sped,
Until God’s word be said.
In the white lily bloom,
Brave boy, is thy tomb.”

When the two heard that, they were frightened to death, and ran away in
great haste. When the King came home they told him that the Queen had
been delivered of a dog. Then the King said, “What God does, is well
done!” But a fisherman who dwelt near the water fished the little boy
out again while he was still alive, and as his wife had no children,
they reared him. When a year had gone by, the King again went away, and
the Queen had another little boy, whom the false sisters likewise took
and threw into the water. Then up flew a little bird again and sang,

“To thy death art thou sped,
Until God’s word be said.
In the white lily bloom,
Brave boy, is thy tomb.”

And when the King came back, they told him that the Queen had once more
given birth to a dog, and he again said, “What God does, is well done.”
The fisherman, however, fished this one also out of the water, and
reared him.