Then the King again journeyed forth, and the Queen had a little girl,
whom also the false sisters threw into the water. Then again a little
bird flew up on high and sang,

“To thy death art thou sped
Until God’s word be said.
In the white lily bloom,
Bonny girl, is thy tomb.”

And when the King came home they told him that the Queen had been
delivered of a cat. Then the King grew angry, and ordered his wife to
be cast into prison, and therein was she shut up for many long years.

In the meantime the children had grown up. Then eldest once went out
with some other boys to fish, but the other boys would not have him
with them, and said, “Go thy way, foundling.”

Hereupon he was much troubled, and asked the old fisherman if that was
true? The fisherman told him that once when he was fishing he had drawn
him out of the water. So the boy said he would go forth and seek his
father. The fisherman, however, entreated him to stay, but he would not
let himself be hindered, and at last the fisherman consented. Then the
boy went on his way and walked for many days, and at last he came to a
great piece of water by the side of which stood an old woman fishing.
“Good day, mother,” said the boy.

“Many thanks,” said she.

“Thou wilt fish long enough before thou catchest anything.”

“And thou wilt seek long enough before thou findest thy father. How
wilt thou get over the water?” said the woman.

“God knows.”

Then the old woman took him up on her back and carried him through it,
and he sought for a long time, but could not find his father.

When a year had gone by, the second boy set out to seek his brother. He
came to the water, and all fared with him just as with his brother. And
now there was no one at home but the daughter, and she mourned for her
brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let her
set forth, for she wished to go in search of her brothers. Then she
likewise came to the great piece of water, and she said to the old
woman, “Good day, mother.”

“Many thanks,” replied the old woman.