“May God help you with your fishing,” said the maiden. When the old
woman heard that, she became quite friendly, and carried her over the
silently and boldly, without either laughing or looking at it. Then you
will come to a great high castle, on the threshold of which you must
let the wand fall, and go straight through the castle, and out again on
the other side. There you will see an old fountain out of which a large
tree has grown, whereon hangs a bird in a cage which you must take
down. Take likewise a glass of water out of the fountain, and with
these two things go back by the same way. Pick up the wand again from
the threshold and take it with you, and when you again pass by the dog,
strike him in the face with it, but be sure that you hit him, and then
just come back here to me.” The maiden found everything exactly as the
old woman had said, and on her way back she found her two brothers who
had sought each other over half the world. They went together to the
place where the black dog was lying on the road; she struck it in the
face, and it turned into a handsome prince who went with them to the
river. There the old woman was still standing. She rejoiced much to see
them again, and carried them all over the water, and then she too went
away, for now she was freed. The others, however, went to the old
fisherman, and all were glad that they had found each other again, but
they hung the bird on the wall.

But the second son could not settle at home, and took his cross-bow and
went a-hunting. When he was tired he took his flute, and made music.
The King was hunting too, and heard that and went thither, and when he
met the youth, he said, “Who has given thee leave to hunt here?”

“Oh, no one.”

“To whom dost thou belong, then?”

“I am the fisherman’s son.”

“But he has no children.”

“If thou wilt not believe, come with me.”

That the King did, and questioned the fisherman, who told everything to
him, and the little bird on the wall began to sing,

“The mother sits alone
There in the prison small,
O King of royal blood,
These are thy children all.
The sisters twain so false,
They wrought the children woe,
There in the waters deep
Where the fishermen come and go.”

Then they were all terrified, and the King took the bird, the fisherman
and the three children back with him to the castle, and ordered the
prison to be opened and brought his wife out again. She had, however,
grown quite ill and weak. Then the daughter gave her some of the water
of the fountain to drink, and she became strong and healthy. But the
two false sisters were burnt, and the daughter married the prince.

97 The Water of Life