As the second son also remained away, the youngest begged to be allowed
to go forth to fetch the water, and at last the King was obliged to let
him go. When he met the dwarf and the latter asked him whither he was
going in such haste, he stopped, gave him an explanation, and said, “I
am seeking the water of life, for my father is sick unto death.” “Dost
thou know, then, where that is to be found?” “No,” said the prince. “As
thou hast borne thyself as is seemly, and not haughtily like thy false
brothers, I will give thee the information and tell thee how thou mayst
obtain the water of life. It springs from a fountain in the courtyard
of an enchanted castle, but thou wilt not be able to make thy way to
it, if I do not give thee an iron wand and two small loaves of bread. Strike thrice with the wand on the iron door of the castle and it will
spring open: inside lie two lions with gaping jaws, but if thou
throwest a loaf to each of them, they will be quieted. Then hasten to
fetch some of the water of life before the clock strikes twelve, else
the door will shut again, and thou wilt be imprisoned.” The prince
thanked him, took the wand and the bread, and set out on his way. When
he arrived, everything was as the dwarf had said. The door sprang open
at the third stroke of the wand, and when he had appeased the lions
with the bread, he entered the castle, and came to a large and splendid
hall, wherein sat some enchanted princes whose rings he drew off their
fingers. A sword and a loaf of bread were lying there, which he carried
away. After this, he entered a chamber, in which was a beautiful maiden
who rejoiced when she saw him, kissed him, and told him that he had
delivered her, and should have the whole of her kingdom, and that if he
would return in a year their wedding should be celebrated; likewise she
told him where the spring of the water of life was, and that he was to
hasten and draw some of it before the clock struck twelve. Then he went
onwards, and at last entered a room where there was a beautiful
newly-made bed, and as he was very weary, he felt inclined to rest a
little. So he lay down and fell asleep. When he awoke, it was striking
a quarter to twelve. He sprang up in a fright, ran to the spring, drew
some water in a cup which stood near, and hastened away. But just as he
was passing through the iron door, the clock struck twelve, and the
door fell to with such violence that it carried away a piece of his
heel. He, however, rejoicing at having obtained the water of life, went
homewards, and again passed the dwarf.