When the latter saw the sword
and the loaf, he said, “With these thou hast won great wealth; with the
sword thou canst slay whole armies, and the bread will never come to an
end.” But the prince would not go home to his father without his
brothers, and said, “Dear dwarf, canst thou not tell me where my two
brothers are? They went out before I did in search of the water of
life, and have not returned.” “They are imprisoned between two
mountains,” said the dwarf. “I have condemned them to stay there,
because they were so haughty.” Then the prince begged until the dwarf
released them; but he warned him, however, and said, “Beware of them,
for they have bad hearts.” When his brothers came, he rejoiced, and
told them how things had gone with him, that he had found the water of
life and had brought a cupful away with him, and had rescued a
beautiful princess, who was willing to wait a year for him, and then
their wedding was to be celebrated and he would obtain a great kingdom. After that they rode on together, and chanced upon a land where war and
famine reigned, and the King already thought he must perish, for the
scarcity was so great. Then the prince went to him and gave him the
loaf, wherewith he fed and satisfied the whole of his kingdom, and then
the prince gave him the sword also wherewith he slew the hosts of his
enemies, and could now live in rest and peace. The prince then took
back his loaf and his sword, and the three brothers rode on. But after
this they entered two more countries where war and famine reigned and
each time the prince gave his loaf and his sword to the Kings, and had
now delivered three kingdoms, and after that they went on board a ship
and sailed over the sea. During the passage, the two eldest conversed
apart and said, “The youngest has found the water of life and not we,
for that our father will give him the kingdom the kingdom which belongs
to us, and he will rob us of all our fortune.” They then began to seek
revenge, and plotted with each other to destroy him. They waited until
they found him fast asleep, then they poured the water of life out of
the cup, and took it for themselves, but into the cup they poured salt
sea-water. Now therefore, when they arrived home, the youngest took his
cup to the sick King in order that he might drink out of it, and be
cured. But scarcely had he drunk a very little of the salt sea-water
than he became still worse than before. And as he was lamenting over
this, the two eldest brothers came, and accused the youngest of having
intended to poison him, and said that they had brought him the true
water of life, and handed it to him.