There was once a poor woodcutter who toiled from early morning till
late night. When at last he had laid by some money he said to his boy,
“You are my only child, I will spend the money which I have earned with
the sweat of my brow on your education; if you learn some honest trade
you can support me in my old age, when my limbs have grown stiff and I
am obliged to stay at home.” Then the boy went to a High School and
learned diligently so that his masters praised him, and he remained
there a long time. When he had worked through two classes, but was
still not yet perfect in everything, the little pittance which the
father had earned was all spent, and the boy was obliged to return home
to him. “Ah,” said the father, sorrowfully, “I can give you no more,
and in these hard times I cannot earn a farthing more than will suffice
for our daily bread.” “Dear father,” answered the son, “don’t trouble
yourself about it, if it is God’s will, it will turn to my advantage I
shall soon accustom myself to it.” When the father wanted to go into
the forest to earn money by helping to pile and stack wood and also
chop it, the son said, “I will go with you and help you.” “Nay, my
son,” said the father, “that would be hard for you; you are not
accustomed to rough work, and will not be able to bear it, besides I
have only one axe and no money left wherewith to buy another.” “Just go
to the neighbour,” answered the son, “he will lend you his axe until I
have earned one for myself.” The father then borrowed an axe of the
neighbour, and next morning at break of day they went out into the
forest together. The son helped his father and was quite merry and
brisk about it. But when the sun was right over their heads, the father
said, “We will rest, and have our dinner, and then we shall work as
well again.” The son took his bread in his hands, and said, “Just you
rest, father, I am not tired; I will walk up and down a little in the
forest, and look for birds’ nests.” “Oh, you fool,” said the father,
“why should you want to run about there? Afterwards you will be tired,
and no longer able to raise your arm; stay here, and sit down beside
me.” The son, however, went into the forest, ate his bread, was very
merry and peered in among the green branches to see if he could
discover a bird’s nest anywhere. So he went up and down to see if he
could find a bird’s nest until at last he came to a great
dangerous-looking oak, which certainly was already many hundred years
old, and which five men could not have spanned.