He stood still and
looked at it, and thought, “Many a bird must have built its nest in
that.” Then all at once it seemed to him that he heard a voice. He
listened and became aware that someone was crying in a very smothered
voice, “Let me out, let me out!” He looked around, but could discover
nothing; nevertheless, he fancied that the voice came out of the
ground. Then he cried, “Where art thou?” The voice answered, “I am down
here amongst the roots of the oak-tree. Let me out! Let me out!” The
scholar began to loosen the earth under the tree, and search among the
roots, until at last he found a glass bottle in a little hollow. He
lifted it up and held it against the light, and then saw a creature
shaped like a frog, springing up and down in it. “Let me out! Let me
out!” it cried anew, and the scholar thinking no evil, drew the cork
out of the bottle. Immediately a spirit ascended from it, and began to
grow, and grew so fast that in a very few moments he stood before the
scholar, a terrible fellow as big as half the tree by which he was
standing. “Knowest thou,” he cried in an awful voice, “what thy wages
are for having let me out?” “No,” replied the scholar fearlessly, “how
should I know that?” “Then I will tell thee,” cried the spirit; “I must
strangle thee for it.” “Thou shouldst have told me that sooner,” said
the scholar, “for I should then have left thee shut up, but my head
shall stand fast for all thou canst do; more persons than one must be
consulted about that.” “More persons here, more persons there,” said
the spirit. “Thou shalt have the wages thou hast earned. Dost thou
think that I was shut up there for such a long time as a favour. No, it
was a punishment for me. I am the mighty Mercurius. Whoso releases me,
him must I strangle.” “Softly,” answered the scholar, “not so fast. I
must first know that thou really wert shut up in that little bottle,
and that thou art the right spirit. If, indeed, thou canst get in
again, I will believe and then thou mayst do as thou wilt with me.” The
spirit said haughtily, “that is a very trifling feat,” drew himself
together, and made himself as small and slender as he had been at
first, so that he crept through the same opening, and right through the
neck of the bottle in again. Scarcely was he within than the scholar
thrust the cork he had drawn back into the bottle, and threw it among
the roots of the oak into its old place, and the spirit was betrayed.