There was once a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier, conducted
himself bravely, and was always the foremost when it rained bullets. So
long as the war lasted, all went well, but when peace was made, he
received his dismissal, and the captain said he might go where he
liked. His parents were dead, and he had no longer a home, so he went
to his brothers and begged them to take him in, and keep him until war
broke out again. The brothers, however, were hard-hearted and said,
“What can we do with thee? thou art of no use to us; go and make a
living for thyself.” The soldier had nothing left but his gun; he took
that on his shoulder, and went forth into the world. He came to a wide
heath, on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees; under
these he sat sorrowfully down, and began to think over his fate. “I
have no money,” thought he, “I have learnt no trade but that of
fighting, and now that they have made peace they don’t want me any
longer; so I see beforehand that I shall have to starve.” All at once
he heard a rustling, and when he looked round, a strange man stood
before him, who wore a green coat and looked right stately, but had a
hideous cloven foot. “I know already what thou art in need of,” said
the man; “gold and possessions shall thou have, as much as thou canst
make away with do what thou wilt, but first I must know if thou art
fearless, that I may not bestow my money in vain.” “A soldier and
fear—how can those two things go together?” he answered; “thou canst
put me to the proof.” “Very well, then,” answered the man, “look behind
thee.” The soldier turned round, and saw a large bear, which came
growling towards him. “Oho!” cried the soldier, “I will tickle thy nose
for thee, so that thou shalt soon lose thy fancy for growling,” and he
aimed at the bear and shot it through the muzzle; it fell down and
never stirred again. “I see quite well,” said the stranger, “that thou
art not wanting in courage, but there is still another condition which
thou wilt have to fulfil.” “If it does not endanger my salvation,”
replied the soldier, who knew very well who was standing by him. “If it
does, I’ll have nothing to do with it.” “Thou wilt look to that for
thyself,” answered Greencoat; “thou shalt for the next seven years
neither wash thyself, nor comb thy beard, nor thy hair, nor cut thy
nails, nor say one paternoster. I will give thee a coat and a cloak,
which during this time thou must wear.