When the old man saw himself set free from all his troubles he did not
know how to be grateful enough. “Come with me,” said he to Bearskin;
“my daughters are all miracles of beauty, choose one of them for
thyself as a wife. When she hears what thou hast done for me, she will
not refuse thee. Thou dost in truth look a little strange, but she will
soon put thee to rights again.” This pleased Bearskin well, and he
went. When the eldest saw him she was so terribly alarmed at his face
that she screamed and ran away. The second stood still and looked at
him from head to foot, but then she said, “How can I accept a husband
who no longer has a human form? The shaven bear that once was here and
passed itself off for a man pleased me far better, for at any rate it
wore a hussar’s dress and white gloves. If it were nothing but
ugliness, I might get used to that.” The youngest, however, said, “Dear
father, that must be a good man to have helped you out of your trouble,
so if you have promised him a bride for doing it, your promise must be
kept.” It was a pity that Bearskin’s face was covered with dirt and
with hair, for if not they might have seen how delighted he was when he
heard these words. He took a ring from his finger, broke it in two, and
gave her one half, the other he kept for himself. He wrote his name,
however, on her half, and hers on his, and begged her to keep her piece
carefully, and then he took his leave and said, “I must still wander
about for three years, and if I do not return then, thou art free, for
I shall be dead. But pray to God to preserve my life.”

The poor betrothed bride dressed herself entirely in black, and when
she thought of her future bridegroom, tears came into her eyes. Nothing
but contempt and mockery fell to her lot from her sisters. “Take care,”
said the eldest, “if thou givest him thy hand, he will strike his claws
into it.” “Beware!” said the second. “Bears like sweet things, and if
he takes a fancy to thee, he will eat thee up.” “Thou must always do as
he likes,” began the elder again, “or else he will growl.” And the
second continued, “But the wedding will be a merry one, for bears dance
well.” The bride was silent, and did not let them vex her. Bearskin,
however, travelled about the world from one place to another, did good
where he was able, and gave generously to the poor that they might pray
for him.