There was a poor but good little girl who lived alone with her mother,
and they no longer had anything to eat. So the child went into the
forest, and there an aged woman met her who was aware of her sorrow,
and presented her with a little pot, which when she said, “Cook, little
pot, cook,” would cook good, sweet porridge, and when she said, “Stop,
little pot,” it ceased to cook. The girl took the pot home to her
mother, and now they were freed from their poverty and hunger, and ate
sweet porridge as often as they chose. Once on a time when the girl had
gone out, her mother said, “Cook, little pot, cook.” And it did cook
and she ate till she was satisfied, and then she wanted the pot to stop
cooking, but did not know the word. So it went on cooking and the
porridge rose over the edge, and still it cooked on until the kitchen
and whole house were full, and then the next house, and then the whole
street, just as if it wanted to satisfy the hunger of the whole world,
and there was the greatest distress, but no one knew how to stop it. At
last when only one single house remained, the child came home and just
said, “Stop, little pot,” and it stopped and gave up cooking, and
whosoever wished to return to the town had to eat his way back.

104 Wise Folks

One day a peasant took his good hazel-stick out of the corner and said
to his wife, “Trina, I am going across country, and shall not return
for three days. If during that time the cattle-dealer should happen to
call and want to buy our three cows, you may strike a bargain at once,
but not unless you can get two hundred thalers for them; nothing less,
do you hear?” “For heaven’s sake just go in peace,” answered the woman,
“I will manage that.” “You, indeed,” said the man. “You once fell on
your head when you were a little child, and that affects you even now;
but let me tell you this, if you do anything foolish, I will make your
back black and blue, and not with paint, I assure you, but with the
stick which I have in my hand, and the colouring shall last a whole
year, you may rely on that.” And having said that, the man went on his
way.