In a certain mill lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child,
and three apprentices served under him. As they had been with him
several years, he one day said to them, “I am old, and want to sit in
the chimney-corner, go out, and whichsoever of you brings me the best
horse home, to him will I give the mill, and in return for it he shall
take care of me till my death.” The third of the boys was, however, the
drudge, who was looked on as foolish by the others; they begrudged the
mill to him, and afterwards he would not have it. Then all three went
out together, and when they came to the village, the two said to stupid
Hans, “Thou mayst just as well stay here, as long as thou livest thou
wilt never get a horse.” Hans, however, went with them, and when it was
night they came to a cave in which they lay down to sleep. The two
sharp ones waited until Hans had fallen asleep, then they got up, and
went away leaving him where he was. And they thought they had done a
very clever thing, but it was certain to turn out ill for them. When
the sun arose, and Hans woke up, he was lying in a deep cavern. He
looked around on every side and exclaimed, “Oh, heavens, where am I?”
Then he got up and clambered out of the cave, went into the forest, and
thought, “Here I am quite alone and deserted, how shall I obtain a
horse now?” Whilst he was thus walking full of thought, he met a small
tabby-cat which said quite kindly, “Hans, where are you going?” “Alas,
thou canst not help me.” “I well know your desire,” said the cat. “You
wish to have a beautiful horse. Come with me, and be my faithful
servant for seven years long, and then I will give you one more
beautiful than any you have ever seen in your whole life.” “Well, this
is a wonderful cat!” thought Hans, “but I am determined to see if she
is telling the truth.” So she took him with her into her enchanted
castle, where there were nothing but cats who were her servants. They
leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs, and were merry and happy. In the
evening when they sat down to dinner, three of them had to make music. One played the bassoon, the other the fiddle, and the third put the
trumpet to his lips, and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly
could. When they had dined, the table was carried away, and the cat
said, “Now, Hans, come and dance with me.” “No,” said he, “I won’t
dance with a pussy cat. I have never done that yet.” “Then take him to
bed,” said she to the cats. So one of them lighted him to his bed-room,
one pulled his shoes off, one his stockings, and at last one of them
blew out the candle.