Next morning they returned and helped him out of
bed, one put his stockings on for him, one tied his garters, one
brought his shoes, one washed him, and one dried his face with her
tail. “That feels very soft!” said Hans. He, however, had to serve the
cat, and chop some wood every day, and to do that, he had an axe of
silver, and the wedge and saw were of silver and the mallet of copper. So he chopped the wood small; stayed there in the house and had good
meat and drink, but never saw anyone but the tabby-cat and her
servants. Once she said to him, “Go and mow my meadow, and dry the
grass,” and gave him a scythe of silver, and a whetstone of gold, but
bade him deliver them up again carefully. So Hans went thither, and did
what he was bidden, and when he had finished the work, he carried the
scythe, whetstone, and hay to the house, and asked if it was not yet
time for her to give him his reward. “No,” said the cat, “you must
first do something more for me of the same kind. There is timber of
silver, carpenter’s axe, square, and everything that is needful, all of
silver, with these build me a small house.” Then Hans built the small
house, and said that he had now done everything, and still he had no
horse. Nevertheless the seven years had gone by with him as if they
were six months. The cat asked him if he would like to see her horses? “Yes,” said Hans. Then she opened the door of the small house, and when
she had opened it, there stood twelve horses, such horses, so bright
and shining, that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them. And now she
gave him to eat and drink, and said, “Go home, I will not give thee thy
horse away with thee; but in three days’ time I will follow thee and
bring it.” So Hans set out, and she showed him the way to the mill. She
had, however, never once given him a new coat, and he had been obliged
to keep on his dirty old smock-frock, which he had brought with him,
and which during the seven years had everywhere become too small for
him. When he reached home, the two other apprentices were there again
as well, and each of them certainly had brought a horse with him, but
one of them was a blind one, and the other lame. They asked Hans where
his horse was. “It will follow me in three days’ time.” Then they
laughed and said, “Indeed, stupid Hans, where wilt thou get a horse?”
“It will be a fine one!” Hans went into the parlour, but the miller
said he should not sit down to table, for he was so ragged and torn,
that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in.