So they gave
him a mouthful of food outside, and at night, when they went to rest,
the two others would not let him have a bed, and at last he was forced
to creep into the goose-house, and lie down on a little hard straw. In
the morning when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach came
with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see
them! and a servant brought a seventh as well, which was for the poor
miller’s boy. And a magnificent princess alighted from the coach and
went into the mill, and this princess was the little tabby-cat whom
poor Hans had served for seven years. She asked the miller where the
miller’s boy and drudge was? Then the miller said, “We cannot have him
here in the mill, for he is so ragged; he is lying in the goose-house.”
Then the King’s daughter said that they were to bring him immediately. So they brought him out, and he had to hold his little smock-frock
together to cover himself. The servants unpacked splendid garments, and
washed him and dressed him, and when that was done, no King could have
looked more handsome. Then the maiden desired to see the horses which
the other apprentices had brought home with them, and one of them was
blind and the other lame. So she ordered the servant to bring the
seventh horse, and when the miller saw it, he said that such a horse as
that had never yet entered his yard. “And that is for the third
miller’s boy,” said she. “Then he must have the mill,” said the miller,
but the King’s daughter said that the horse was there, and that he was
to keep his mill as well, and took her faithful Hans and set him in the
coach, and drove away with him. They first drove to the little house
which he had built with the silver tools, and behold it was a great
castle, and everything inside it was of silver and gold; and then she
married him, and he was rich, so rich that he had enough for all the
rest of his life. After this, let no one ever say that anyone who is
silly can never become a person of importance.