107 The Two Travellers

Hill and vale do not come together, but the children of men do, good
and bad. In this way a shoemaker and a tailor once met with each other
in their travels. The tailor was a handsome little fellow who was
always merry and full of enjoyment. He saw the shoemaker coming towards
him from the other side, and as he observed by his bag what kind of a
trade he plied, he sang a little mocking song to him,

“Sew me the seam,
Draw me the thread,
Spread it over with pitch,
Knock the nail on the head.”

The shoemaker, however, could not endure a joke; he pulled a face as if
he had drunk vinegar, and made a gesture as if he were about to seize
the tailor by the throat. But the little fellow began to laugh, reached
him his bottle, and said, “No harm was meant, take a drink, and swallow
your anger down.” The shoemaker took a very hearty drink, and the storm
on his face began to clear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor,
and said, “I spoke civilly to you; one speaks well after much drinking,
but not after much thirst. Shall we travel together?” “All right,”
answered the tailor, “if only it suits you to go into a big town where
there is no lack of work.” “That is just where I want to go,” answered
the shoemaker. “In a small nest there is nothing to earn, and in the
country, people like to go barefoot.” They travelled therefore onwards
together, and always set one foot before the other like a weasel in the
snow.

Both of them had time enough, but little to bite and to break. When
they reached a town they went about and paid their respects to the
tradesmen, and because the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had
such pretty red cheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and when
luck was good the master’s daughters gave him a kiss beneath the porch,
as well. When he again fell in with the shoemaker, the tailor had
always the most in his bundle. The ill-tempered shoemaker made a wry
face, and thought, “The greater the rascal the more the luck,” but the
tailor began to laugh and to sing, and shared all he got with his
comrade. If a couple of pence jingled in his pockets, he ordered good
cheer, and thumped the table in his joy till the glasses danced, and it
was lightly come, lightly go, with him.