When the sun went down, they got out of the forest, and before them in
the open country stood the gallows. Thither the shoemaker guided the
blind tailor, and then left him alone and went his way. Weariness,
pain, and hunger made the wretched man fall asleep, and he slept the
whole night. When day dawned he awoke, but knew not where he lay. Two
poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, and a crow sat on the head of
each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak,
and said, “Brother, art thou awake?” “Yes, I am awake,” answered the
second. “Then I will tell thee something,” said the first; “the dew
which this night has fallen down over us from the gallows, gives every
one who washes himself with it his eyes again. If blind people did but
know this, how many would regain their sight who do not believe that to
be possible.”

When the tailor heard that, he took his pocket-handkerchief, pressed it
on the grass, and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his
eyes with it. Immediately was fulfilled what the man on the gallows had
said, and a couple of healthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was not
long before the tailor saw the sun rise behind the mountains; in the
plain before him lay the great royal city with its magnificent gates
and hundred towers, and the golden balls and crosses which were on the
spires began to shine. He could distinguish every leaf on the trees,
saw the birds which flew past, and the midges which danced in the air.
He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could thread it as well
as ever he had done, his heart danced with delight. He threw himself on
his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him, and said his
morning prayer. He did not forget also to pray for the poor sinners who
were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like the
pendulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle on his back and soon
forgot the pain of heart he had endured, and went on his way singing
and whistling.

The first thing he met was a brown foal running about the fields at
large. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to spring on it and ride
into the town. The foal, however, begged to be set free. “I am still
too young,” it said, “even a light tailor such as thou art would break
my back in two let me go till I have grown strong. A time may perhaps
come when I may reward thee for it.” “Run off,” said the tailor, “I see
thou art still a giddy thing.” He gave it a touch with a switch over
its back, whereupon it kicked up its hind legs for joy, leapt over
hedges and ditches, and galloped away into the open country.