But the little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. “The sun
to be sure fills my eyes,” said he, “but the bread does not fill my
mouth. The first thing that comes across me and is even half edible
will have to suffer for it.” In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly
over the meadow towards him. “Halt, halt!” cried the tailor, and seized
him by the leg. “I don’t know if thou art good to eat or not, but my
hunger leaves me no great choice. I must cut thy head off, and roast
thee.” “Don’t do that,” replied the stork; “I am a sacred bird which
brings mankind great profit, and no one does me an injury. Leave me my
life, and I may do thee good in some other way.” “Well, be off, Cousin
Longlegs,” said the tailor. The stork rose up, let its long legs hang
down, and flew gently away.

“What’s to be the end of this?” said the tailor to himself at last, “my
hunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.
Whatsoever comes in my way now is lost.” At this moment he saw a couple
of young ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him. “You
come just at the right moment,” said he, and laid hold of one of them
and was about to wring its neck. On this an old duck which was hidden
among the reeds, began to scream loudly, and swam to him with open
beak, and begged him urgently to spare her dear children. “Canst thou
not imagine,” said she, “how thy mother would mourn if any one wanted
to carry thee off, and give thee thy finishing stroke?” “Only be
quiet,” said the good-tempered tailor, “thou shalt keep thy children,”
and put the prisoner back into the water.

When he turned round, he was standing in front of an old tree which was
partly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. “There I
shall at once find the reward of my good deed,” said the tailor, “the
honey will refresh me.” But the Queen-bee came out, threatened him and
said, “If thou touchest my people, and destroyest my nest, our stings
shall pierce thy skin like ten thousand red-hot needles. But if thou
wilt leave us in peace and go thy way, we will do thee a service for it
another time.”