Hans the Hedgehog, however, took care of his pigs, and the pigs
multiplied until they became so many in number that the whole forest
was filled with them. Then Hans the Hedgehog resolved not to live in
the forest any longer, and sent word to his father to have every stye
in the village emptied, for he was coming with such a great herd that
all might kill who wished to do so. When his father heard that, he was
troubled, for he thought Hans the Hedgehog had died long ago. Hans the
Hedgehog, however, seated himself on the cock, and drove the pigs
before him into the village, and ordered the slaughter to begin. Ha!
but there was a killing and a chopping that might have been heard two
miles off! After this Hans the Hedgehog said, “Father, let me have the
cock shod once more at the forge, and then I will ride away and never
come back as long as I live.” Then the father had the cock shod once
more, and was pleased that Hans the Hedgehog would never return again.

Hans the Hedgehog rode away to the first kingdom. There the King had
commanded that whosoever came mounted on a cock and had bagpipes with
him should be shot at, cut down, or stabbed by everyone, so that he
might not enter the palace. When, therefore, Hans the Hedgehog came
riding thither, they all pressed forward against him with their pikes,
but he spurred the cock and it flew up over the gate in front of the
King’s window and lighted there, and Hans cried that the King must give
him what he had promised, or he would take both his life and his
daughter’s. Then the King began to speak his daughter fair, and to beg
her to go away with Hans in order to save her own life and her
father’s. So she dressed herself in white, and her father gave her a
carriage with six horses and magnificent attendants together with gold
and possessions. She seated herself in the carriage, and placed Hans
the Hedgehog beside her with the cock and the bagpipes, and then they
took leave and drove away, and the King thought he should never see her
again. He was however, deceived in his expectation, for when they were
at a short distance from the town, Hans the Hedgehog took her pretty
clothes off, and pierced her with his hedgehog’s skin until she bled
all over. “That is the reward of your falseness,” said he, “go your
way, I will not have you!” and on that he chased her home again, and
she was disgraced for the rest of her life.