Hans the Hedgehog, however, rode on further on the cock, with his
bagpipes, to the dominions of the second King to whom he had shown the
way. This one, however, had arranged that if any one resembling Hans
the Hedgehog should come, they were to present arms, give him safe
conduct, cry long life to him, and lead him to the royal palace.

But when the King’s daughter saw him she was terrified, for he looked
quite too strange. She remembered however, that she could not change
her mind, for she had given her promise to her father. So Hans the
Hedgehog was welcomed by her, and married to her, and had to go with
her to the royal table, and she seated herself by his side, and they
ate and drank. When the evening came and they wanted to go to sleep,
she was afraid of his quills, but he told her she was not to fear, for
no harm would befall her, and he told the old King that he was to
appoint four men to watch by the door of the chamber, and light a great
fire, and when he entered the room and was about to get into bed, he
would creep out of his hedgehog’s skin and leave it lying there by the
bedside, and that the men were to run nimbly to it, throw it in the
fire, and stay by it until it was consumed. When the clock struck
eleven, he went into the chamber, stripped off the hedgehog’s skin, and
left it lying by the bed. Then came the men and fetched it swiftly, and
threw it in the fire; and when the fire had consumed it, he was
delivered, and lay there in bed in human form, but he was coal-black as
if he had been burnt. The King sent for his physician who washed him
with precious salves, and anointed him, and he became white, and was a
handsome young man. When the King’s daughter saw that she was glad, and
the next morning they arose joyfully, ate and drank, and then the
marriage was properly solemnized, and Hans the Hedgehog received the
kingdom from the aged King.

When several years had passed he went with his wife to his father, and
said that he was his son. The father, however, declared he had no son
he had never had but one, and he had been born like a hedgehog with
spikes, and had gone forth into the world. Then Hans made himself
known, and the old father rejoiced and went with him to his kingdom.

My tale is done,
And away it has run
To little August’s house.

109 The Shroud