There was once a mother who had a little boy of seven years old, who
was so handsome and lovable that no one could look at him without
liking him, and she herself worshipped him above everything in the
world. Now it so happened that he suddenly became ill, and God took him
to himself; and for this the mother could not be comforted, and wept
both day and night. But soon afterwards, when the child had been
buried, it appeared by night in the places where it had sat and played
during its life, and if the mother wept, it wept also, and when morning
came it disappeared. As, however, the mother would not stop crying, it
came one night, in the little white shroud in which it had been laid in
its coffin, and with its wreath of flowers round its head, and stood on
the bed at her feet, and said, “Oh, mother, do stop crying, or I shall
never fall asleep in my coffin, for my shroud will not dry because of
all thy tears, which fall upon it.” The mother was afraid when she
heard that, and wept no more. The next night the child came again, and
held a little light in its hand, and said, “Look, mother, my shroud is
nearly dry, and I can rest in my grave.” Then the mother gave her
sorrow into God’s keeping, and bore it quietly and patiently, and the
child came no more, but slept in its little bed beneath the earth.

110 The Jew Among Thorns

There was once a rich man, who had a servant who served him diligently
and honestly: He was every morning the first out of bed, and the last
to go to rest at night; and, whenever there was a difficult job to be
done, which nobody cared to undertake, he was always the first to set
himself to it. Moreover, he never complained, but was contented with
everything, and always merry.

When a year was ended, his master gave him no wages, for he said to
himself, “That is the cleverest way; for I shall save something, and he
will not go away, but stay quietly in my service.” The servant said
nothing, but did his work the second year as he had done it the first;
and when at the end of this, likewise, he received no wages, he made
himself happy, and still stayed on.

When the third year also was past, the master considered, put his hand
in his pocket, but pulled nothing out. Then at last the servant said,
“Master, for three years I have served you honestly, be so good as to
give me what I ought to have, for I wish to leave, and look about me a
little more in the world.”