“Yes, my good fellow,” answered the old miser; “you have served me
industriously, and, therefore, you shall be cheerfully rewarded;” And
he put his hand into his pocket, but counted out only three farthings,
saying, “There, you have a farthing for each year; that is large and
liberal pay, such as you would have received from few masters.”

The honest servant, who understood little about money, put his fortune
into his pocket, and thought, “Ah! now that I have my purse full, why
need I trouble and plague myself any longer with hard work!” So on he
went, up hill and down dale; and sang and jumped to his heart’s
content. Now it came to pass that as he was going by a thicket a little
man stepped out, and called to him, “Whither away, merry brother? I see
you do not carry many cares.” “Why should I be sad?” answered the
servant; “I have enough; three years’ wages are jingling in my pocket.”
“How much is your treasure?” the dwarf asked him. “How much? Three
farthings sterling, all told.” “Look here,” said the dwarf, “I am a
poor needy man, give me your three farthings; I can work no longer, but
you are young, and can easily earn your bread.”

And as the servant had a good heart, and felt pity for the old man, he
gave him the three farthings, saying, “Take them in the name of Heaven,
I shall not be any the worse for it.”

Then the little man said, “As I see you have a good heart I grant you
three wishes, one for each farthing, they shall all be fulfilled.”

“Aha?” said the servant, “you are one of those who can work wonders!
Well, then, if it is to be so, I wish, first, for a gun, which shall
hit everything that I aim at; secondly, for a fiddle, which when I play
on it, shall compel all who hear it to dance; thirdly, that if I ask a
favor of any one he shall not be able to refuse it.”

“All that shall you have,” said the dwarf; and put his hand into the
bush, and only think, there lay a fiddle and gun, all ready, just as if
they had been ordered. These he gave to the servant, and then said to
him, “Whatever you may ask at any time, no man in the world shall be
able to deny you.”

“Heart alive! What can one desire more?” said the servant to himself,
and went merrily onwards. Soon afterwards he met a Jew with a long
goat’s-beard, who was standing listening to the song of a bird which
was sitting up at the top of a tree. “Good heavens,” he was exclaiming,
“that such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice! If
it were but mine! If only someone would sprinkle some salt upon its
tail!”