“If that is all,” said the servant, “the bird shall soon be down here;”
And taking aim he pulled the trigger, and down fell the bird into the
thorn-bushes. “Go, you rogue,” he said to the Jew, “and fetch the bird
out for yourself!”

“Oh!” said the Jew, “leave out the rogue, my master, and I will do it
at once. I will get the bird out for myself, as you really have hit
it.” Then he lay down on the ground, and began to crawl into the
thicket.

When he was fast among the thorns, the good servant’s humor so tempted
him that he took up his fiddle and began to play. In a moment the Jew’s
legs began to move, and to jump into the air, and the more the servant
fiddled the better went the dance. But the thorns tore his shabby coat
from him, combed his beard, and pricked and plucked him all over the
body. “Oh dear,” cried the Jew, “what do I want with your fiddling?
Leave the fiddle alone, master; I do not want to dance.”

But the servant did not listen to him, and thought, “You have fleeced
people often enough, now the thorn-bushes shall do the same to you;”
and he began to play over again, so that the Jew had to jump higher
than ever, and scraps of his coat were left hanging on the thorns. “Oh,
woe’s me! cried the Jew; I will give the gentleman whatsoever he asks
if only he leaves off fiddling a purse full of gold.” “If you are so
liberal,” said the servant, “I will stop my music; but this I must say
to your credit, that you dance to it so well that it is quite an art;”
and having taken the purse he went his way.

The Jew stood still and watched the servant quietly until he was far
off and out of sight, and then he screamed out with all his might, “You
miserable musician, you beer-house fiddler! wait till I catch you
alone, I will hunt you till the soles of your shoes fall off! You
ragamuffin! just put five farthings in your mouth, and then you may be
worth three halfpence!” and went on abusing him as fast as he could
speak. As soon as he had refreshed himself a little in this way, and
got his breath again, he ran into the town to the justice.

“My lord judge,” he said, “I have come to make a complaint; see how a
rascal has robbed and ill-treated me on the public highway! a stone on
the ground might pity me; my clothes all torn, my body pricked and
scratched, my little all gone with my purse, good ducats, each piece
better than the last; for God’s sake let the man be thrown into
prison!”