“Was it a soldier,” said the judge, “who cut you thus with his sabre?”
“Nothing of the sort!” said the Jew; “it was no sword that he had, but
a gun hanging at his back, and a fiddle at his neck; the wretch may
easily be known.”

So the judge sent his people out after the man, and they found the good
servant, who had been going quite slowly along, and they found, too,
the purse with the money upon him. As soon as he was taken before the
judge he said, “I did not touch the Jew, nor take his money; he gave it
to me of his own free will, that I might leave off fiddling because he
could not bear my music.” “Heaven defend us!” cried the Jew, “his lies
are as thick as flies upon the wall.”

But the judge also did not believe his tale, and said, “This is a bad
defence, no Jew would do that.” And because he had committed robbery on
the public highway, he sentenced the good servant to be hanged. As he
was being led away the Jew again screamed after him, “You vagabond! you
dog of a fiddler! now you are going to receive your well-earned
reward!” The servant walked quietly with the hangman up the ladder, but
upon the last step he turned round and said to the judge, “Grant me
just one request before I die.”

“Yes, if you do not ask your life,” said the judge. “I do not ask for
life,” answered the servant, “but as a last favor let me play once more
upon my fiddle.” The Jew raised a great cry of “Murder! murder! for
goodness’ sake do not allow it! Do not allow it!” But the judge said,
“Why should I not let him have this short pleasure? it has been granted
to him, and he shall have it.” However, he could not have refused on
account of the gift which had been bestowed on the servant.

Then the Jew cried, “Oh! woe’s me! tie me, tie me fast!” while the good
servant took his fiddle from his neck, and made ready. As he gave the
first scrape, they all began to quiver and shake, the judge, his clerk,
and the hangman and his men, and the cord fell out of the hand of the
one who was going to tie the Jew fast. At the second scrape all raised
their legs, and the hangman let go his hold of the good servant, and
made himself ready to dance. At the third scrape they all leaped up and
began to dance; the judge and the Jew being the best at jumping. Soon
all who had gathered in the market-place out of curiosity were dancing
with them; old and young, fat and lean, one with another. The dogs,
likewise, which had run there got up on their hind legs and capered
about; and the longer he played, the higher sprang the dancers, so that
they knocked against each other’s heads, and began to shriek terribly.