There was once a young fellow who had learnt the trade of locksmith,
and told his father he would now go out into the world and seek his
fortune. “Very well,” said the father, “I am quite content with that,”
and gave him some money for his journey. So he travelled about and
looked for work. After a time he resolved not to follow the trade of
locksmith any more, for he no longer liked it, but he took a fancy for
hunting. Then there met him in his rambles a huntsman dressed in green,
who asked whence he came and whither he was going? The youth said he
was a locksmith’s apprentice, but that the trade no longer pleased him,
and he had a liking for huntsmanship, would he teach it to him? “Oh,
yes,” said the huntsman, “if thou wilt go with me.” Then the young
fellow went with him, bound himself to him for some years, and learnt
the art of hunting. After this he wished to try his luck elsewhere, and
the huntsman gave him nothing in the way of payment but an air-gun,
which had, however, this property, that it hit its mark without fail
whenever he shot with it. Then he set out and found himself in a very
large forest, which he could not get to the end of in one day. When
evening came he seated himself in a high tree in order to escape from
the wild beasts. Towards midnight, it seemed to him as if a tiny little
light glimmered in the distance. Then he looked down through the
branches towards it, and kept well in his mind where it was. But in the
first place he took off his hat and threw it down in the direction of
the light, so that he might go to the hat as a mark when he had
descended. Then he got down and went to his hat, put it on again and
went straight forwards. The farther he went, the larger the light grew,
and when he got close to it he saw that it was an enormous fire, and
that three giants were sitting by it, who had an ox on the spit, and
were roasting it. Presently one of them said, “I must just taste if the
meat will soon be fit to eat,” and pulled a piece off, and was about to
put it in his mouth when the huntsman shot it out of his hand. “Well,
really,” said the giant, “if the wind has not blown the bit out of my
hand!” and helped himself to another. But when he was just about to
bite into it, the huntsman again shot it away from him.