On this the
giant gave the one who was sitting next him a box on the ear, and cried
angrily, “Why art thou snatching my piece away from me?” “I have not
snatched it away,” said the other, “a sharpshooter must have shot it
away from thee.” The giant took another piece, but could not, however,
keep it in his hand, for the huntsman shot it out. Then the giant said,
“That must be a good shot to shoot the bit out of one’s very mouth,
such an one would be useful to us.” And he cried aloud, “Come here,
thou sharpshooter, seat thyself at the fire beside us and eat thy fill,
we will not hurt thee; but if thou wilt not come, and we have to bring
thee by force, thou art a lost man!” On this the youth went up to them
and told them he was a skilled huntsman, and that whatever he aimed at
with his gun, he was certain to hit. Then they said if he would go with
them he should be well treated, and they told him that outside the
forest there was a great lake, behind which stood a tower, and in the
tower was imprisoned a lovely princess, whom they wished very much to
carry off. “Yes,” said he, “I will soon get her for you.” Then they
added, “But there is still something else, there is a tiny little dog,
which begins to bark directly any one goes near, and as soon as it
barks every one in the royal palace wakens up, and for this reason we
cannot get there; canst thou undertake to shoot it dead?” “Yes,” said
he, “that will be a little bit of fun for me.” After this he got into a
boat and rowed over the lake, and as soon as he landed, the little dog
came running out, and was about to bark, but the huntsman took his
air-gun and shot it dead. When the giants saw that, they rejoiced, and
thought they already had the King’s daughter safe, but the huntsman
wished first to see how matters stood, and told them that they must
stay outside until he called them. Then he went into the castle, and
all was perfectly quiet within, and every one was asleep. When he
opened the door of the first room, a sword was hanging on the wall
which was made of pure silver, and there was a golden star on it, and
the name of the King, and on a table near it lay a sealed letter which
he broke open, and inside it was written that whosoever had the sword
could kill everything which opposed him. So he took the sword from the
wall, hung it at his side and went onwards: then he entered the room
where the King’s daughter was lying sleeping, and she was so beautiful
that he stood still and, holding his breath, looked at her.