But when the King in the castle awoke, he saw the three giants lying
there dead. So he went into the sleeping-room of his daughter, awoke
her, and asked who could have killed the giants? Then said she, “Dear
father, I know not, I have been asleep.” But when she arose and would
have put on her slippers, the right one was gone, and when she looked
at her neck-kerchief it was cut, and the right corner was missing, and
when she looked at her night-dress a piece was cut out of it. The King
summoned his whole court together, soldiers and every one else who was
there, and asked who had set his daughter at liberty, and killed the
giants? Now it happened that he had a captain, who was one-eyed and a
hideous man, and he said that he had done it. Then the old King said
that as he had accomplished this, he should marry his daughter. But the
maiden said, “Rather than marry him, dear father, I will go away into
the world as far as my legs can carry me.” But the King said that if
she would not marry him she should take off her royal garments and wear
peasant’s clothing, and go forth, and that she should go to a potter,
and begin a trade in earthen vessels. So she put off her royal apparel,
and went to a potter and borrowed crockery enough for a stall, and she
promised him also that if she had sold it by the evening, she would pay
for it. Then the King said she was to seat herself in a corner with it
and sell it, and he arranged with some peasants to drive over it with
their carts, so that everything should be broken into a thousand
pieces. When therefore the King’s daughter had placed her stall in the
street, by came the carts, and broke all she had into tiny fragments. She began to weep and said, “Alas, how shall I ever pay for the pots
now?” The King had, however, wished by this to force her to marry the
captain; but instead of that, she again went to the potter, and asked
him if he would lend to her once more. He said, “No,” she must first
pay for the things she had already had. Then she went to her father and
cried and lamented, and said she would go forth into the world. Then
said he, “I will have a little hut built for thee in the forest
outside, and in it thou shalt stay all thy life long and cook for every
one, but thou shalt take no money for it.” When the hut was ready, a
sign was hung on the door whereon was written, “To-day given, to-morrow
sold.” There she remained a long time, and it was rumored about the
world that a maiden was there who cooked without asking for payment,
and that this was set forth on a sign outside her door.