The huntsman
heard it likewise, and thought to himself, “That would suit thee. Thou
art poor, and hast no money.” So he took his air-gun and his knapsack,
wherein all the things which he had formerly carried away with him from
the castle as tokens of his truthfulness were still lying, and went
into the forest, and found the hut with the sign, “To-day given,
to-morrow sold.” He had put on the sword with which he had cut off the
heads of the three giants, and thus entered the hut, and ordered
something to eat to be given to him. He was charmed with the beautiful
maiden, who was indeed as lovely as any picture. She asked him whence
he came and whither he was going, and he said, “I am roaming about the
world.” Then she asked him where he had got the sword, for that truly
her father’s name was on it. He asked her if she were the King’s
daughter. “Yes,” answered she. “With this sword,” said he, “did I cut
off the heads of three giants.” And he took their tongues out of his
knapsack in proof. Then he also showed her the slipper, and the corner
of the neck-kerchief, and the bit of the night-dress. Hereupon she was
overjoyed, and said that he was the one who had delivered her. On this
they went together to the old King, and fetched him to the hut, and she
led him into her room, and told him that the huntsman was the man who
had really set her free from the giants. And when the aged King saw all
the proofs of this, he could no longer doubt, and said that he was very
glad he knew how everything had happened, and that the huntsman should
have her to wife, on which the maiden was glad at heart. Then she
dressed the huntsman as if he were a foreign lord, and the King ordered
a feast to be prepared. When they went to table, the captain sat on the
left side of the King’s daughter, but the huntsman was on the right,
and the captain thought he was a foreign lord who had come on a visit. When they had eaten and drunk, the old King said to the captain that he
would set before him something which he must guess. “Supposing any one
said that he had killed the three giants and he were asked where the
giants’ tongues were, and he were forced to go and look, and there were
none in their heads, how could that happen?” The captain said, “Then
they cannot have had any.” “Not so,” said the King. “Every animal has a
tongue,” and then he likewise asked what any one would deserve who made
such an answer? The captain replied, “He ought to be torn in pieces.”
Then the King said he had pronounced his own sentence, and the captain
was put in prison and then torn in four pieces; but the King’s daughter
was married to the huntsman.