When the young folks went to the bed-room there stood a stone image of
St. Christopher, and the King’s daughter said to it, “My father will
come at nine o’clock, and every hour till it strikes three; when he
calls, give him an answer instead of the King’s son.” Then the stone
image of St. Christopher nodded its head quite quickly, and then more
and more slowly till at last it stood still. The next morning the King
said to him, “Thou hast done the business well, but I cannot give my
daughter away. Thou must now watch a night by my second daughter, and
then I will consider with myself, whether thou canst have my eldest
daughter to wife, but I shall come every hour myself, and when I call
thee, answer me, and if I call thee and thou dost not reply, thy blood
shall flow.” Then they both went into the sleeping-room, and there
stood a still larger stone image of St. Christopher, and the King’s
daughter said to it, “If my father calls, do you answer him.” Then the
great stone image of St. Christopher again nodded its head quite
quickly and then more and more slowly, until at last it stood still
again. And the King’s son lay down on the threshold, put his hand under
his head and slept. The next morning the King said to him, “Thou hast
done the business really well, but I cannot give my daughter away; thou
must now watch a night by the youngest princess, and then I will
consider with myself whether thou canst have my second daughter to
wife, but I shall come every hour myself, and when I call thee answer
me, and if I call thee and thou answerest not, thy blood shall flow for
me.”

Then they once more went to the sleeping-room together, and there was a
much greater and much taller image of St. Christopher than the two
first had been. The King’s daughter said to it, “When my father calls,
do thou answer.” Then the great tall stone image of St. Christopher
nodded quite half an hour with its head, until at length the head stood
still again. And the King’s son laid himself down on the threshold of
the door and slept. The next morning the King said, “Thou hast indeed
watched well, but I cannot give thee my daughter now; I have a great
forest, if thou cuttest it down for me between six o’clock this morning
and six at night, I will think about it.” Then he gave him a glass axe,
a glass wedge, and a glass mallet. When he got into the wood, he began
at once to cut, but the axe broke in two, then he took the wedge, and
struck it once with the mallet, and it became as short and as small as
sand. Then he was much troubled and believed he would have to die, and
sat down and wept.