When it had struck six, they went home together. Then said the King,
“Is the castle ready?” “Yes,” said the King’s son. When they sat down
to table, the King said, “I cannot give away my youngest daughter until
the two eldest are married.” Then the King’s son and the King’s
daughter were quite troubled, and the King’s son had no idea what to
do. But he went by night to the King’s daughter and ran away with her.
When they had got a little distance away, the King’s daughter peeped
round and saw her father behind her. “Oh,” said she, “what are we to
do? My father is behind us, and will take us back with him. I will at
once change thee into a briar, and myself into a rose, and I will
shelter myself in the midst of the bush.” When the father reached the
place, there stood a briar with one rose on it, then he was about to
gather the rose, when the thorn came and pricked his finger so that he
was forced to go home again. His wife asked why he had not brought
their daughter back with him? So he said he had nearly got up to her,
but that all at once he had lost sight of her, and a briar with one
rose was growing on the spot.

Then said the Queen, “If thou hadst but gathered the rose, the briar
would have been forced to come too.” So he went back again to fetch the
rose, but in the meantime the two were already far over the plain, and
the King ran after them. Then the daughter once more looked round and
saw her father coming, and said, “Oh, what shall we do now? I will
instantly change thee into a church and myself into a priest, and I
will stand up in the pulpit, and preach.” When the King got to the
place, there stood a church, and in the pulpit was a priest preaching.
So he listened to the sermon, and then went home again.

Then the Queen asked why he had not brought their daughter with him,
and he said, “Nay, I ran a long time after her, and just as I thought I
should soon overtake her, a church was standing there and a priest was
in the pulpit preaching.” “Thou shouldst just have brought the priest,”
said his wife, “and then the church would soon have come. It is no use
to send thee, I must go there myself.” When she had walked for some
time, and could see the two in the distance, the King’s daughter peeped
round and saw her mother coming, and said, “Now we are undone, for my
mother is coming herself: I will immediately change thee into a
fish-pond and myself into a fish.