And the Queen came one day on foot from the castle, and went walking by
the pond, and saw the well-grown maiden sitting there, and said, “What
a fine strong girl that is! She pleases me well!” Then she and all with
her looked at the maid, but no one knew her. So a long time passed by
during which the maiden served the miller honorably and faithfully. In
the meantime, the Queen had sought a wife for her son, who came from
quite a distant part of the world. When the bride came, they were at
once to be married. And many people hurried together, all of whom
wanted to see everything. Then the girl said to the miller that he
might be so good as to give her leave to go also. So the miller said,
“Yes, do go there.” When she was about to go, she opened one of the
three walnuts, and a beautiful dress lay inside it. She put it on, and
went into the church and stood by the altar. Suddenly came the bride
and bridegroom, and seated themselves before the altar, and when the
priest was just going to bless them, the bride peeped half round and
saw the maiden standing there. Then she stood up again, and said she
would not be given away until she also had as beautiful a dress as that
lady there. So they went back to the house again, and sent to ask the
lady if she would sell that dress. No, she would not sell it, but the
bride might perhaps earn it. Then the bride asked her how she was to do
this? Then the maiden said if she might sleep one night outside the
King’s son’s door, the bride might have what she wanted. So the bride
said, “Yes, she was willing to do that.” But the servants were ordered
to give the King’s son a sleeping-drink, and then the maiden laid
herself down on the threshold and lamented all night long. She had had
the forest cut down for him, she had had the fish-pond cleaned out for
him, she had had the castle built for him, she had changed him into a
briar, and then into a church, and at last into a fish-pond, and yet he
had forgotten her so quickly. The King’s son did not hear one word of
it, but the servants had been awakened, and had listened to it, and had
not known what it could mean. The next morning when they were all up,
the bride put on the dress, and went away to the church with the
bridegroom. In the meantime the maiden opened the second walnut, and a
still more beautiful dress was inside it. She put it on, and went and
stood by the altar in the church, and everything happened as it had
happened the time before.