114 The Cunning Little Tailor

There was once on a time a princess who was extremely proud. If a wooer
came she gave him some riddle to guess, and if he could not find it
out, he was sent contemptuously away. She let it be made known also
that whosoever solved her riddle should marry her, let him be who he
might. At length, therefore, three tailors fell in with each other, the
two eldest of whom thought they had done so many dexterous bits of work
successfully that they could not fail to succeed in this also; the
third was a little useless land-louper, who did not even know his
trade, but thought he must have some luck in this venture, for where
else was it to come from? Then the two others said to him, “Just stay
at home; thou canst not do much with thy little bit of understanding.”
The little tailor, however, did not let himself be discouraged, and
said he had set his head to work about this for once, and he would
manage well enough, and he went forth as if the whole world were his.

They all three announced themselves to the princess, and said she was
to propound her riddle to them, and that the right persons were now
come, who had understandings so fine that they could be threaded in a
needle. Then said the princess, “I have two kinds of hair on my head,
of what color is it?” “If that be all,” said the first, “it must be
black and white, like the cloth which is called pepper and salt.” The
princess said, “Wrongly guessed; let the second answer.” Then said the
second, “If it be not black and white, then it is brown and red, like
my father’s company coat.” “Wrongly guessed,” said the princess, “let
the third give the answer, for I see very well he knows it for
certain.” Then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and said, “The
princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head, and those are the
two different colors.” When the princess heard that, she turned pale
and nearly fell down with terror, for the little tailor had guessed her
riddle, and she had firmly believed that no man on earth could discover
it. When her courage returned she said, “Thou hast not won me yet by
that; there is still something else that thou must do. Below, in the
stable is a bear with which thou shalt pass the night, and when I get
up in the morning if thou art still alive, thou shalt marry me.” She
expected, however, she should thus get rid of the tailor, for the bear
had never yet left any one alive who had fallen into his clutches. The
little tailor did not let himself be frightened away, but was quite
delighted, and said, “Boldly ventured is half won.”