When the princess heard the bear growling so fiercely during the night,
she believed nothing else but that he was growling for joy, and had
made an end of the tailor. In the morning she arose careless and happy,
but when she peeped into the stable, the tailor stood gaily before her,
and was as healthy as a fish in water. Now she could not say another
word against the wedding because she had given a promise before every
one, and the King ordered a carriage to be brought in which she was to
drive to church with the tailor, and there she was to be married. When
they had got into the carriage, the two other tailors, who had false
hearts and envied him his good fortune, went into the stable and
unscrewed the bear again. The bear in great fury ran after the
carriage. The princess heard him snorting and growling; she was
terrified, and she cried, “Ah, the bear is behind us and wants to get
thee!” The tailor was quick and stood on his head, stuck his legs out
of the window, and cried, “Dost thou see the vise? If thou dost not be
off thou shalt be put into it again.” When the bear saw that, he turned
round and ran away. The tailor drove quietly to church, and the
princess was married to him at once, and he lived with her as happy as
a woodlark. Whosoever does not believe this, must pay a thaler.

115 The Bright Sun Brings It to Light

A tailor’s apprentice was travelling about the world in search of work,
and at one time he could find none, and his poverty was so great that
he had not a farthing to live on. Presently he met a Jew on the road,
and as he thought he would have a great deal of money about him, the
tailor thrust God out of his heart, fell on the Jew, and said, “Give me
thy money, or I will strike thee dead.” Then said the Jew, “Grant me my
life, I have no money but eight farthings.” But the tailor said, “Money
thou hast; and it shall be produced,” and used violence and beat him
until he was near death. And when the Jew was dying, the last words he
said were, “The bright sun will bring it to light,” and thereupon he
died. The tailor’s apprentice felt in his pockets and sought for money,
but he found nothing but eight farthings, as the Jew had said. Then he
took him up and carried him behind a clump of trees, and went onwards
to seek work. After he had traveled about a long while, he got work in
a town with a master who had a pretty daughter, with whom he fell in
love, and he married her, and lived in good and happy wedlock.