The soldier returned to the town from which he had come. He went to the
best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord
furnish him a room as handsomely as possible. When it was ready and the
soldier had taken possession of it, he summoned the little black
mannikin and said, “I have served the King faithfully, but he has
dismissed me, and left me to hunger, and now I want to take my
revenge.” “What am I to do?” asked the little man. “Late at night, when
the King’s daughter is in bed, bring her here in her sleep, she shall
do servant’s work for me.” The mannikin said, “That is an easy thing
for me to do, but a very dangerous thing for you, for if it is
discovered, you will fare ill.” When twelve o’clock had struck, the
door sprang open, and the mannikin carried in the princess. “Aha! art
thou there?” cried the soldier, “get to thy work at once! Fetch the
broom and sweep the chamber.” When she had done this, he ordered her to
come to his chair, and then he stretched out his feet and said, “Pull
off my boots for me,” and then he threw them in her face, and made her
pick them up again, and clean and brighten them. She, however, did
everything he bade her, without opposition, silently and with half-shut
eyes. When the first cock crowed, the mannikin carried her back to the
royal palace, and laid her in her bed.

Next morning when the princess arose, she went to her father, and told
him that she had had a very strange dream. “I was carried through the
streets with the rapidity of lightning,” said she, “and taken into a
soldier’s room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his
room, clean his boots, and do all kinds of menial work. It was only a
dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything.”
“The dream may have been true,” said the King, “I will give thee a
piece of advice. Fill thy pocket full of peas, and make a small hole in
it, and then if thou art carried away again, they will fall out and
leave a track in the streets.” But unseen by the King, the mannikin was
standing beside him when he said that, and heard all. At night when the
sleeping princess was again carried through the streets, some peas
certainly did fall out of her pocket, but they made no track, for the
crafty mannikin had just before scattered peas in every street there
was. And again the princess was compelled to do servant’s work until
cock-crow.