“Strike home, in every Swabian’s name,
Or else I wish ye may be lame.”

But Hans knew how to meet this, and said,

“Thunder and lightning, it’s fine to prate,
But for dragon-hunting thou’rt aye too late.”

Michal cried,

“Nothing is wanting, not even a hair,
Be sure the Devil himself is there.”

Then it was Jergli’s turn to speak,

“If it be not, it’s at least his mother,
Or else it’s the Devil’s own step-brother.”

And now Marli had a bright thought, and said to Veitli,

“Advance, Veitli, advance, advance,
And I behind will hold the lance.”

Veitli, however, did not attend to that, and Jackli said,

“Tis Schulz’s place the first to be,
No one deserves that honor but he.”

Then Master Schulz plucked up his courage, and said, gravely,

“Then let us boldly advance to the fight,
And thus we shall show our valour and might.”

Hereupon they all together set on the dragon. Master Schulz crossed
himself and prayed for God’s assistance, but as all this was of no
avail, and he was getting nearer and nearer to the enemy, he screamed
“Oho! oho! ho! ho! ho!” in the greatest anguish. This awakened the
hare, which in great alarm darted swiftly away. When Master Schulz saw
her thus flying from the field of battle, he cried in his joy.

“Quick, Veitli, quick, look there, look there,
The monster’s nothing but a hare!”

But the Swabian allies went in search of further adventures, and came
to the Moselle, a mossy, quiet, deep river, over which there are few
bridges, and which in many places people have to cross in boats. As the
seven Swabians did not know this, they called to a man who was working
on the opposite side of the river, to know how people contrived to get
across. The distance and their way of speaking made the man unable to
understand what they wanted, and he said “What? what?” in the way
people speak in the neighborhood of Treves. Master Schulz thought he
was saying, “Wade, wade through the water,” and as he was the first,
began to set out and went into the moselle. It was not long before he
sank in the mud and the deep waves which drove against him, but his hat
was blown on the opposite shore by the wind, and a frog sat down beside
it, and croaked “Wat, wat, wat.” The other six on the opposite side
heard that, and said, “Oho, comrades, Master Schulz is calling us; if
he can wade across, why cannot we?” So they all jumped into the water
together in a great hurry, and were drowned, and thus one frog took the
lives of all six of them, and not one of the Swabian allies ever
reached home again.

120 The Three Apprentices