The King’s son thanked God for his great mercy, and travelled with his
lion onwards through the world. And it came to pass that he arrived
before a castle which was enchanted. In the gateway stood a maiden of
beautiful form and fine face, but she was quite black. She spoke to him
and said, “Ah, if thou couldst but deliver me from the evil spell which
is thrown over me.” “What shall I do?” said the King’s son. The maiden
answered, “Thou must pass three nights in the great hall of this
enchanted castle, but thou must let no fear enter thy heart. When they
are doing their worst to torment thee, if thou bearest it without
letting a sound escape thee, I shall be free. Thy life they dare not
take.” Then said the King’s son, “I have no fear; with God’s help I
will try it.” So he went gaily into the castle, and when it grew dark
he seated himself in the large hall and waited. Everything was quiet,
however, till midnight, when all at once a great tumult began, and out
of every hole and corner came little devils. They behaved as if they
did not see him, seated themselves in the middle of the room, lighted a
fire, and began to gamble. When one of them lost, he said, “It is not
right; some one is here who does not belong to us; it is his fault that
I am losing.” “Wait, you fellow behind the stove, I am coming,” said
another. The screaming became still louder, so that no one could have
heard it without terror. The King’s son stayed sitting quite quietly,
and was not afraid; but at last the devils jumped up from the ground,
and fell on him, and there were so many of them that he could not
defend himself from them. They dragged him about on the floor, pinched
him, pricked him, beat him, and tormented him, but no sound escaped
from him. Towards morning they disappeared, and he was so exhausted
that he could scarcely move his limbs, but when day dawned the black
maiden came to him. She bore in her hand a little bottle wherein was
the water of life wherewith she washed him, and he at once felt all
pain depart and new strength flow through his veins. She said, “Thou
hast held out successfully for one night, but two more lie before
thee.” Then she went away again, and as she was going, he observed that
her feet had become white. The next night the devils came and began
their gambols anew. They fell on the King’s son, and beat him much more
severely than the night before, until his body was covered with wounds. But as he bore all quietly, they were forced to leave him, and when
dawn appeared, the maiden came and healed him with the water of life. And when she went away, he saw with joy that she had already become
white to the tips of her fingers.