Next morning, when he awoke, the promise occurred to him, and he wished
to see if it also had been fulfilled. When he lifted up the pillow, the
gold piece shone in his eyes, and next day he found another, and so it
went on, every time he got up. He gathered together a heap of gold, but
at last he thought, “Of what use is all my gold to me if I stay at
home? I will go forth and see the world.”

He then took leave of his parents, buckled on his huntsman’s pouch and
gun, and went out into the world. It came to pass, that one day he
travelled through a dense forest, and when he came to the end of it, in
the plain before him stood a fine castle. An old woman was standing
with a wonderfully beautiful maiden, looking out of one of the windows.
The old woman, however, was a witch and said to the maiden, “There
comes one out of the forest, who has a wonderful treasure in his body,
we must filch it from him, my dear daughter, it is more suitable for us
than for him. He has a bird’s heart about him, by means of which a gold
piece lies every morning under his pillow.” She told her what she was
to do to get it, and what part she had to play, and finally threatened
her, and said with angry eyes, “And if you do not attend to what I say,
it will be the worse for you.” Now when the huntsman came nearer he
descried the maiden, and said to himself, “I have travelled about for
such a long time, I will take a rest for once, and enter that beautiful
castle. I have certainly money enough.” Nevertheless, the real reason
was that he had caught sight of the pretty girl.

He entered the house, and was well received and courteously
entertained. Before long he was so much in love with the young witch
that he no longer thought of anything else, and only saw things as she
saw them, and did what she desired. The old woman then said, “Now we
must have the bird’s heart, he will never miss it.” She prepared a
drink, and when it was ready, poured it into a cup and gave it to the
maiden, who was to present it to the huntsman. She did so, saying,
“Now, my dearest, drink to me.” So he took the cup, and when he had
swallowed the draught, he brought up the heart of the bird. The girl
had to take it away secretly and swallow it herself, for the old woman
would have it so. Thenceforward he found no more gold under his pillow,
but it lay instead under that of the maiden, from whence the old woman
fetched it away every morning; but he was so much in love and so
befooled, that he thought of nothing else but of passing his time with
the girl.