But when the huntsman had had his sleep out and awoke, and perceived
that his sweetheart had betrayed him, and left him alone on the wild
mountain, he said, “Oh, what treachery there is in the world!” and sat
down there in care and sorrow, not knowing what to do. But the mountain
belonged to some wild and monstrous giants who dwelt thereon and lived
their lives there, and he had not sat long before he saw three of them
coming towards him, so he lay down as if he were sunk in a deep sleep.
Then the giants came up, and the first kicked him with his foot and
said, “What sort of an earth-worm is lying curled up here?” The second
said, “Step upon him and kill him.” But the third said, “That would
indeed be worth your while; just let him live, he cannot remain here;
and when he climbs higher, toward the summit of of the mountain, the
clouds will lay hold of him and bear him away.” So saying they passed
by. But the huntsman had paid heed to their words, and as soon as they
were gone, he rose and climbed up to the summit of the mountain, and
when he had sat there a while, a cloud floated towards him, caught him
up, carried him away, and travelled about for a long time in the
heavens. Then it sank lower, and let itself down on a great
cabbage-garden, girt round by walls, so that he came softly to the
ground on cabbages and vegetables.

Then the huntsman looked about him and said, “If I had but something to
eat! I am so hungry, and my hunger will increase in course of time; but
I see here neither apples nor pears, nor any other sort of fruit,
everywhere nothing but cabbages,” but at length he thought, “At a pinch
I can eat some of the leaves, they do not taste particularly good, but
they will refresh me.” With that he picked himself out a fine head of
cabbage, and ate it, but scarcely had he swallowed a couple of
mouthfuls than he felt very strange and quite different.

Four legs grew on him, a large head and two thick ears, and he saw with
horror that he was changed into an ass. Still as his hunger increased
every minute, and as the juicy leaves were suitable to his present
nature, he went on eating with great zest. At last he arrived at a
different kind of cabbage, but as soon as he had swallowed it, he again
felt a change, and reassumed his former human shape.