After the huntsman had washed his face, so that the transformed ones
could recognize him, he went down into the courtyard, and said, “Now
you shall receive the wages of your treachery,” and bound them
together, all three with one rope, and drove them along until he came
to a mill. He knocked at the window, the miller put out his head, and
asked what he wanted. “I have three unmanageable beasts,” answered he,
“which I don’t want to keep any longer. Will you take them in, and give
them food and stable room, and manage them as I tell you, and then I
will pay you what you ask.” The miller said, “Why not? But how am I to
manage them?” The huntsman then said that he was to give three beatings
and one meal daily to the old donkey, and that was the witch; one
beating and three meals to the younger one, which was the servant-girl;
and to the youngest, which was the maiden, no beatings and three meals,
for he could not bring himself to have the maiden beaten. After that he
went back into the castle, and found therein everything he needed.

After a couple of days, the miller came and said he must inform him
that the old ass which had received three beatings and only one meal
daily was dead; “the two others,” he continued, “are certainly not
dead, and are fed three times daily, but they are so sad that they
cannot last much longer.” The huntsman was moved to pity, put away his
anger, and told the miller to drive them back again to him. And when
they came, he gave them some of the good salad, so that they became
human again. The beautiful girl fell on her knees before him, and said,
“Ah, my beloved, forgive me for the evil I have done you; my mother
drove me to it; it was done against my will, for I love you dearly.
Your wishing-cloak hangs in a cupboard, and as for the bird’s-heart I
will take a vomiting potion.” But he thought otherwise, and said, “Keep
it; it is all the same, for I will take thee for my true wife.” So the
wedding was celebrated, and they lived happily together until their
death.

123 The Old Woman in the Wood