There was a great war, and the King had many soldiers, but gave them
small pay, so small that they could not live upon it, so three of them
agreed among themselves to desert. One of them said to the others, “If
we are caught we shall be hanged on the gallows; how shall we manage
it?” Another said, “Look at that great cornfield, if we were to hide
ourselves there, no one could find us; the troops are not allowed to
enter it, and to-morrow they are to march away.” They crept into the
corn, only the troops did not march away, but remained lying all round
about it. They stayed in the corn for two days and two nights, and were
so hungry that they all but died, but if they had come out, their death
would have been certain. Then said they, “What is the use of our
deserting if we have to perish miserably here?” But now a fiery dragon
came flying through the air, and it came down to them, and asked why
they had concealed themselves there? They answered, “We are three
soldiers who have deserted because the pay was so bad, and now we shall
have to die of hunger if we stay here, or to dangle on the gallows if
we go out.” “If you will serve me for seven years,” said the dragon, “I
will convey you through the army so that no one shall seize you.” “We
have no choice and are compelled to accept,” they replied. Then the
dragon caught hold of them with his claws, and carried them away
through the air over the army, and put them down again on the earth far
from it; but the dragon was no other than the Devil. He gave them a
small whip and said, “Whip with it and crack it, and then as much gold
will spring up round about as you can wish for; then you can live like
great lords, keep horses, and drive your carriages, but when the seven
years have come to an end, you are my property.” Then he put before
them a book which they were all three forced to sign. “I will, however,
then set you a riddle,” said he, “and if you can guess that, you shall
be free, and released from my power.” Then the dragon flew away from
them, and they went away with their whip, had gold in plenty, ordered
themselves rich apparel, and travelled about the world. Wherever they
were they lived in pleasure and magnificence, rode on horseback, drove
in carriages, ate and drank, but did nothing wicked. The time slipped
quickly away, and when the seven years were coming to an end, two of
them were terribly anxious and alarmed; but the third took the affair
easily, and said, “Brothers, fear nothing, my head is sharp enough, I
shall guess the riddle.” They went out into the open country and sat
down, and the two pulled sorrowful faces.