Then an aged woman came up to
them who inquired why they were so sad? “Alas!” said they, “how can
that concern you? After all, you cannot help us.” “Who knows?” said
she. “Confide your trouble to me.” So they told her that they had been
the Devil’s servants for nearly seven years, and that he had provided
them with gold as plentifully as if it had been blackberries, but that
they had sold themselves to him, and were forfeited to him, if at the
end of the seven years they could not guess a riddle. The old woman
said, “If you are to be saved, one of you must go into the forest,
there he will come to a fallen rock which looks like a little house, he
must enter that, and then he will obtain help.” The two melancholy ones
thought to themselves, “That will still not save us,” and stayed where
they were, but the third, the merry one, got up and walked on in the
forest until he found the rock-house. In the little house, however, a
very aged woman was sitting, who was the Devil’s grandmother, and asked
the soldier where he came from, and what he wanted there? He told her
everything that had happened, and as he pleased her well, she had pity
on him, and said she would help him. She lifted up a great stone which
lay above a cellar, and said, “Conceal thyself there, thou canst hear
everything that is said here; only sit still, and do not stir. When the
dragon comes, I will question him about the riddle, he tells everything
to me, so listen carefully to his answer.” At twelve o’clock at night,
the dragon came flying thither, and asked for his dinner. The
grandmother laid the table, and served up food and drink, so that he
was pleased, and they ate and drank together. In the course of
conversation, she asked him what kind of a day he had had, and how many
souls he had got? “Nothing went very well to-day,” he answered, “but I
have laid hold of three soldiers, I have them safe.” “Indeed! three
soldiers, that’s something like, but they may escape you yet.” The
Devil said mockingly, “They are mine! I will set them a riddle, which
they will never in this world be able to guess!” “What riddle is that?”
she inquired. “I will tell you. In the great North Sea lies a dead
dog-fish, that shall be your roast meat, and the rib of a whale shall
be your silver spoon, and a hollow old horse’s hoof shall be your
wine-glass.” When the Devil had gone to bed, the old grandmother raised
up the stone, and let out the soldier. “Hast thou paid particular
attention to everything?” “Yes,” said he, “I know enough, and will
contrive to save myself.” Then he had to go back another way, through
the window, secretly and with all speed to his companions.