The Queen, however, did not love the King because he had no nose, but
she would have much liked to love Ferdinand the Faithful. Once,
therefore, when all the lords of the court were together, the Queen
said she could do feats of magic, that she could cut off any one’s head
and put it on again, and that one of them ought just to try it. But
none of them would be the first, so Ferdinand the Faithful, again at
the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful, undertook it and she hewed
off his head, and put it on again for him, and it healed together
directly, so that it looked as if he had a red thread round his throat.
Then the King said to her, “My child, and where hast thou learnt that?”
“Yes,” she said, “I understand the art; shall I just try it on thee
also?” “Oh, yes,” said he. But she cut off his head, and did not put it
on again; but pretended that she could not get it on, and that it would
not keep fixed. Then the King was buried, but she married Ferdinand the
Faithful.

He, however, always rode on his white horse, and once when he was
seated on it, it told him that he was to go on to the heath which he
knew, and gallop three times round it. And when he had done that, the
white horse stood up on its hind legs, and was changed into a King’s
son.

127 The Iron Stove

In the days when wishing was still of some use, a King’s son was
bewitched by an old witch, and shut up in an iron stove in a forest.
There he passed many years, and no one could deliver him. Then a King’s
daughter came into the forest, who had lost herself, and could not find
her father’s kingdom again. After she had wandered about for nine days,
she at length came to the iron stove. Then a voice came forth from it,
and asked her, “Whence comest thou, and whither goest, thou?” She
answered, “I have lost my father’s kingdom, and cannot get home again.”
Then a voice inside the iron stove said, “I will help thee to get home
again, and that indeed most swiftly, if thou wilt promise to do what I
desire of thee. I am the son of a far greater King than thy father, and
I will marry thee.”