Then was she afraid, and thought, “Good heavens! What can I do with an
iron stove?” But as she much wished to get home to her father, she
promised to do as he desired. But he said, “Thou shalt return here, and
bring a knife with thee, and scrape a hole in the iron.” Then he gave
her a companion who walked near her, but did not speak, but in two
hours he took her home; there was great joy in the castle when the
King’s daughter came home, and the old King fell on her neck and kissed
her. She, however, was sorely troubled, and said, “Dear father, what I
have suffered! I should never have got home again from the great wild
forest, if I had not come to an iron stove, but I have been forced to
give my word that I will go back to it, set it free, and marry it.”
Then the old King was so terrified that he all but fainted, for he had
but this one daughter. They therefore resolved they would send, in her
place, the miller’s daughter, who was very beautiful. They took her
there, gave her a knife, and said she was to scrape at the iron stove.
So she scraped at it for four-and-twenty hours, but could not bring off
the least morsel of it. When day dawned, a voice in the stove said, “It
seems to me it is day outside.” Then she answered, “It seems so to me
too; I fancy I hear the noise of my father’s mill.”

“So thou art a miller’s daughter! Then go thy way at once, and let the
King’s daughter come here.” Then she went away at once, and told the
old King that the man outside there, would have none of her he wanted
the King’s daughter. They, however, still had a swine-herd’s daughter,
who was even prettier than the miller’s daughter, and they determined
to give her a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the
King’s daughter. So she was taken thither, and she also had to scrape
for four-and-twenty hours. She, however, made nothing of it. When day
broke, a voice inside the stove cried, “It seems to me it is day
outside!” Then answered she, “So it seems to me also; I fancy I hear my
father’s horn blowing.”