and a small toad came walking by and opened the door to her. When she
entered, they all bade her welcome, and she was forced to sit down.
They asked, “Where hast thou come from, and whither art thou going?”
Then she related all that had befallen her, and how because she had
transgressed the order which had been given her not to say more than
three words, the stove, and the King’s son also, had disappeared, and
now she was about to seek him over hill and dale until she found him.
Then the old fat one said,

“Little green waiting-maid,
Waiting-maid with the limping leg,
Little dog of the limping leg,
Hop hither and thither,
And bring me the great box.”

Then the little one went and brought the box. After this they gave her
meat and drink, and took her to a well-made bed, which felt like silk
and velvet, and she laid herself therein, in God’s name, and slept.
When morning came she arose, and the old toad gave her three needles
out of the great box which she was to take with her; they would be
needed by her, for she had to cross a high glass mountain, and go over
three piercing swords and a great lake. If she did all this she would
get her lover back again. Then she gave her three things, which she was
to take the greatest care of, namely, three large needles, a
plough-wheel, and three nuts. With these she travelled onwards, and
when she came to the glass mountain which was so slippery, she stuck
the three needles first behind her feet and then before them, and so
got over it, and when she was over it, she hid them in a place which
she marked carefully. After this she came to the three piercing swords,
and then she seated herself on her plough-wheel, and rolled over them.
At last she arrived in front of a great lake, and when she had crossed
it, she came to a large and beautiful castle. She went and asked for a
place; she was a poor girl, she said, and would like to be hired. She
knew, however, that the King’s son whom she had released from the iron
stove in the great forest was in the castle. Then she was taken as a
scullery-maid at low wages. But, already the King’s son had another
maiden by his side whom he wanted to marry, for he thought that she had
long been dead.