That was enough for him, and all inclination had departed from him, so
he hastily descended the tree, and set out on his way home. The woman
ran as fast as she could by by-ways so as to get home first. So when he
entered the parlour, she put on an innocent look as if nothing had
happened, and said, “Well, have you brought a nice piece of wood for
reels?” “No,” said he, “I see very well that winding won’t do,” and
told her what had happened to him in the forest, and from that time
forth left her in peace about it. Neverthless after some time, the man
again began to complain of the disorder in the house. “Wife,” said he,
“it is really a shame that the spun yarn should lie there all
entangled!” “I’ll tell you what,” said she, “as we still don’t come by
any reel, go you up into the loft, and I will stand down below, and
will throw the yarn up to you, and you will throw it down to me, and so
we shall get a skein after all.” “Yes, that will do,” said the man. So
they did that, and when it was done, he said, “The yarn is in skeins,
now it must be boiled.” The woman was again distressed; She certainly
said, “Yes, we will boil it next morning early.” but she was secretly
contriving another trick.

Early in the morning she got up, lighted a fire, and put the kettle on,
only instead of the yarn, she put in a lump of tow, and let it boil.
After that she went to the man who was still lying in bed, and said to
him, “I must just go out, you must get up and look after the yarn which
is in the kettle on the fire, but you must be at hand at once; mind
that, for if the cock should happen to crow, and you are not attending
to the yarn, it will become tow.” The man was willing and took good
care not to loiter. He got up as quickly as he could, and went into the
kitchen. But when he reached the kettle and peeped in, he saw, to his
horror, nothing but a lump of tow. Then the poor man was as still as a
mouse, thinking he had neglected it, and was to blame, and in future
said no more about yarn and spinning. But you yourself must own she was
an odious woman!

129 The Four Skilful Brothers