and in an instant all was gone. Two-eyes now awakened One-eye, and
said, “One-eye, you want to take care of the goat, and go to sleep
while you are doing it, and in the meantime the goat might run all over
the world. Come, let us go home again.” So they went home, and again
Two-eyes let her little dish stand untouched, and One-eye could not
tell her mother why she would not eat it, and to excuse herself said,
“I fell asleep when I was out.”

Next day the mother said to Three-eyes, “This time thou shalt go and
observe if Two-eyes eats anything when she is out, and if any one
fetches her food and drink, for she must eat and drink in secret.” So
Three-eyes went to Two-eyes, and said, “I will go with you and see if
the goat is taken proper care of, and driven where there is food.” But
Two-eyes knew what was in Three-eyes’ mind, and drove the goat into
high grass and said, “We will sit down, and I will sing something to
you, Three-eyes.” Three-eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and
with the heat of the sun, and Two-eyes began the same song as before,
and sang,

“Three eyes, are you waking?”

but then, instead of singing,

“Three eyes, are you sleeping?”

as she ought to have done, she thoughtlessly sang,

“Two eyes, are you sleeping?”

and sang all the time,

“Three eyes, are you waking?
Two eyes, are you sleeping?”

Then two of the eyes which Three-eyes had, shut and fell asleep, but
the third, as it had not been named in the song, did not sleep. It is
true that Three-eyes shut it, but only in her cunning, to pretend it
was asleep too, but it blinked, and could see everything very well. And
when Two-eyes thought that Three-eyes was fast asleep, she used her
little charm,

“Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
Cover the table with something to eat,”

and ate and drank as much as her heart desired, and then ordered the
table to go away again,

“Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
And take the table quite away,”

and Three-eyes had seen everything. Then Two-eyes came to her, waked
her and said, “Have you been asleep, Three-eyes? You are a good
care-taker! Come, we will go home.” And when they got home, Two-eyes
again did not eat, and Three-eyes said to the mother, “Now, I know why
that high-minded thing there does not eat. When she is out, she says to
the goat,

“Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
Cover the table with something to eat,”

and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of
food, much better than any we have here, and when she has eaten all she
wants, she says,

“Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
And take the table quite away,”