Two-eyes lived a long time in happiness. Once two poor women came to
her in her castle, and begged for alms. She looked in their faces, and
recognized her sisters, One-eye, and Three-eyes, who had fallen into
such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from
door to door. Two-eyes, however, made them welcome, and was kind to
them, and took care of them, so that they both with all their hearts
repented the evil that they had done their sister in their youth.

131 Fair Katrinelje and Pif-Paf-Poltrie

“Good-day, Father Hollenthe.” “Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie.” “May I be
allowed to have your daughter?” “Oh, yes, if Mother Malcho (Milch-cow),
Brother High-and-Mighty, Sister Käsetraut, and fair Katrinelje are
willing, you can have her.”

“Where is Mother Malcho, then?” “She is in the cow-house, milking the
cow.”

“Good-day, Mother Malcho.” “Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie.” “May I be
allowed to have your daughter?” “Oh, yes, if Father Hollenthe, Brother
High-and-Mighty, Sister Käsetraut, and fair Katrinelje are willing, you
can have her.” “Where is Brother High-and-Mighty, then?” “He is in the
room chopping some wood.” “Good-day, Brother High-and-Mighty.” “Many
thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie.” “May I be allowed to have your sister?” “Oh,
yes, if Father Hollenthe, Mother Malcho, Sister Käsetraut, and fair
Katrinelje are willing, you can have her.” “Where is Sister Käsetraut,
then?” “She is in the garden cutting cabbages.” “Good-day, sister
Käsetraut.” “Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie.” “May I be allowed to have
your sister?” “Oh, yes, if Father Hollenthe, Mother Malcho, Brother
High-and-Mighty, and fair Katrinelje are willing, you may have her.”
“Where is fair Katrinelje, then?” “She is in the room counting out her
farthings.” “Good day, fair Katrinelje.” “Many thanks,
Pif-paf-poltrie.” “Wilt thou be my bride?” “Oh, yes, if Father
Hollenthe, Mother Malcho, Brother High-and-Mighty, and Sister Käsetraut
are willing, I am ready.”

“Fair Katrinelje, how much dowry do hast thou?” “Fourteen farthings in
ready money, three and a half groschen owing to me, half a pound of
dried apples, a handful of fried bread, and a handful of spices.

And many other things are mine,
Have I not a dowry fine?

“Pif-paf-poltrie, what is thy trade? Art thou a tailor?” “Something
better.” “A shoemaker?” “Something better.” “A husbandman?” “Something
better.” “A joiner?” “Something better.” “A smith?” “Something better.”
“A miller?” “Something better.” “Perhaps a broom-maker?” “Yes, that’s
what I am, is it not a fine trade?”

132 The Fox and the Horse