But the eyelids of the prince grew heavy as lead, and he fell asleep,
and when he awoke in the morning, all twelve had been to the dance, for
their shoes were standing there with holes in the soles. On the second
and third nights it fell out just the same, and then his head was
struck off without mercy. Many others came after this and undertook the
enterprise, but all forfeited their lives. Now it came to pass that a
poor soldier, who had a wound, and could serve no longer, found himself
on the road to the town where the King lived. There he met an old
woman, who asked him where he was going. “I hardly know myself,”
answered he, and added in jest, “I had half a mind to discover where
the princesses danced their shoes into holes, and thus become King.”
“That is not so difficult,” said the old woman, “you must not drink the
wine which will be brought to you at night, and must pretend to be
sound asleep.” With that she gave him a little cloak, and said, “If you
put on that, you will be invisible, and then you can steal after the
twelve.” When the soldier had received this good advice, he went into
the thing in earnest, took heart, went to the King, and announced
himself as a suitor. He was as well received as the others, and royal
garments were put upon him. He was conducted that evening at bed-time
into the ante-chamber, and as he was about to go to bed, the eldest
came and brought him a cup of wine, but he had tied a sponge under his
chin, and let the wine run down into it, without drinking a drop. Then
he lay down and when he had lain a while, he began to snore, as if in
the deepest sleep. The twelve princesses heard that, and laughed, and
the eldest said, “He, too, might as well have saved his life.” With
that they got up, opened wardrobes, presses, cupboards, and brought out
pretty dresses; dressed themselves before the mirrors, sprang about,
and rejoiced at the prospect of the dance. Only the youngest said, “I
know not how it is; you are very happy, but I feel very strange; some
misfortune is certainly about to befall us.” “Thou art a goose, who art
always frightened,” said the eldest. “Hast thou forgotten how many
Kings’ sons have already come here in vain? I had hardly any need to
give the soldier a sleeping-draught, in any case the clown would not
have awakened.” When they were all ready they looked carefully at the
soldier, but he had closed his eyes and did not move or stir, so they
felt themselves quite secure. The eldest then went to her bed and
tapped it; it immediately sank into the earth, and one after the other
they descended through the opening, the eldest going first.