The
soldier, who had watched everything, tarried no longer, put on his
little cloak, and went down last with the youngest. Half-way down the
steps, he just trod a little on her dress; she was terrified at that,
and cried out, “What is that? who is pulling my dress?” “Don’t be so
silly!” said the eldest, “you have caught it on a nail.” Then they went
all the way down, and when they were at the bottom, they were standing
in a wonderfully pretty avenue of trees, all the leaves of which were
of silver, and shone and glistened. The soldier thought, “I must carry
a token away with me,” and broke off a twig from one of them, on which
the tree cracked with a loud report. The youngest cried out again. “Something is wrong, did you hear the crack?” But the eldest said, “It
is a gun fired for joy, because we have got rid of our prince so
quickly.” After that they came into an avenue where all the leaves were
of gold, and lastly into a third where they were of bright diamonds; he
broke off a twig from each, which made such a crack each time that the
youngest started back in terror, but the eldest still maintained that
they were salutes. They went on and came to a great lake whereon stood
twelve little boats, and in every boat sat a handsome prince, all of
whom were waiting for the twelve, and each took one of them with him,
but the soldier seated himself by the youngest. Then her prince said,
“I can’t tell why the boat is so much heavier to-day; I shall have to
row with all my strength, if I am to get it across.” “What should cause
that,” said the youngest, “but the warm weather? I feel very warm too.”
On the opposite side of the lake stood a splendid, brightly-lit castle,
from whence resounded the joyous music of trumpets and kettle-drums. They rowed over there, entered, and each prince danced with the girl he
loved, but the soldier danced with them unseen, and when one of them
had a cup of wine in her hand he drank it up, so that the cup was empty
when she carried it to her mouth; the youngest was alarmed at this, but
the eldest always made her be silent. They danced there till three
o’clock in the morning when all the shoes were danced into holes, and
they were forced to leave off; the princes rowed them back again over
the lake, and this time the soldier seated himself by the eldest. On
the shore they took leave of their princes, and promised to return the
following night.