“Yes,” answered the Tall One, “but the one with the sharp eyes must go
with me, that we may destroy the rock.” Then the Tall One took the one
with bandaged eyes on his back, and in the twinkling of an eye they
were on the enchanted rock. The Tall One immediately took the bandage
from the other’s eyes, and he did but look round, and the rock shivered
into a thousand pieces. Then the Tall One took the maiden in his arms,
carried her back in a second, then fetched his companion with the same
rapidity, and before it struck twelve they were all sitting as they had
sat before, quite merrily and happily. When twelve struck, the aged
sorceress came stealing in with a malicious face, which seemed to say,
“Now he is mine!” for she believed that her daughter was on the rock
three hundred leagues off. But when she saw her in the prince’s arms,
she was alarmed, and said, “Here is one who knows more than I do!” She
dared not make any opposition, and was forced to give him her daughter.
But she whispered in her ear, “It is a disgrace to thee to have to obey
common people, and that thou art not allowed to choose a husband to
thine own liking.”

On this the proud heart of the maiden was filled with anger, and she
meditated revenge. Next morning she caused three hundred great bundles
of wood to be got together, and said to the prince that though the
three tasks were performed, she would still not be his wife until some
one was ready to seat himself in the midst of the wood, and bear the
fire. She thought that none of his servants would let themselves be
burnt for him, and that out of love for her, he himself would place
himself upon it, and then she would be free. But the servants said,
“Every one of us has done something except the Frosty One, he must set
to work,” and they put him in the middle of the pile, and set fire to
it. Then the fire began to burn, and burnt for three days until all the
wood was consumed, and when the flames had burnt out, the Frosty One
was standing amid the ashes, trembling like an aspen leaf, and saying,
“I never felt such a frost during the whole course of my life; if it
had lasted much longer, I should have been benumbed!”