A woman was going about the unenclosed land with her daughter and her
step-daughter cutting fodder, when the Lord came walking towards them
in the form of a poor man, and asked, “Which is the way into the
village?” “If you want to know,” said the mother, “seek it for
yourself,” and the daughter added, “If you are afraid you will not find
it, take a guide with you.” But the step-daughter said, “Poor man, I
will take you there, come with me.” Then God was angry with the mother
and daughter, and turned his back on them, and wished that they should
become as black as night and as ugly as sin. To the poor step-daughter,
however, God was gracious, and went with her, and when they were near
the village, he said a blessing over her, and spake, “Choose three
things for thyself, and I will grant them to thee.” Then said the
maiden, “I should like to be as beautiful and fair as the sun,” and
instantly she was white and fair as day. “Then I should like to have a
purse of money which would never grow empty.” That the Lord gave her
also, but he said, “Do not forget what is best of all.” Said she, “For
my third wish, I desire, after my death, to inhabit the eternal kingdom
of Heaven.” That also was granted unto her, and then the Lord left her. When the step-mother came home with her daughter, and they saw that
they were both as black as coal and ugly, but that the step-daughter
was white and beautiful, wickedness increased still more in their
hearts, and they thought of nothing else but how they could do her an
injury. The step-daughter, however, had a brother called Reginer, whom
she loved much, and she told him all that had happened. Once on a time
Reginer said to her, “Dear sister, I will take thy likeness, that I may
continually see thee before mine eyes, for my love for thee is so great
that I should like always to look at thee.” Then she answered, “But, I
pray thee, let no one see the picture.” So he painted his sister and
hung up the picture in his room; he, however, dwelt in the King’s
palace, for he was his coachman. Every day he went and stood before the
picture, and thanked God for the happiness of having such a dear
sister. Now it happened that the King whom he served, had just lost his
wife, who had been so beautiful that no one could be found to compare
with her, and on this account the King was in deep grief. The
attendants about the court, however, remarked that the coachman stood
daily before this beautiful picture, and they were jealous of him, so
they informed the King.