One evening when the black bride was sitting on the King’s knee, a
white duck came swimming up the gutter to the kitchen, and said to the
kitchen-boy, “Boy, light a fire, that I may warm my feathers.” The
kitchen-boy did it, and lighted a fire on the hearth. Then came the
duck and sat down by it, and shook herself and smoothed her feathers to
rights with her bill. While she was thus sitting and enjoying herself,
she asked, “What is my brother Reginer doing?” The scullery-boy
replied, “He is imprisoned in the pit with adders and with snakes.”
Then she asked, “What is the black witch doing in the house?” The boy
answered, “She is loved by the King and happy.”

“May God have mercy on him,” said the duck, and swam forth by the sink.

The next night she came again and put the same questions, and the third
night also. Then the kitchen-boy could bear it no longer, and went to
the King and discovered all to him. The King, however, wanted to see it
for himself, and next evening went thither, and when the duck thrust
her head in through the sink, he took his sword and cut through her
neck, and suddenly she changed into a most beautiful maiden, exactly
like the picture, which her brother had made of her. The King was full
of joy, and as she stood there quite wet, he caused splendid apparel to
be brought and had her clothed in it. Then she told how she had been
betrayed by cunning and falsehood, and at last thrown down into the
water, and her first request was that her brother should be brought
forth from the pit of snakes, and when the King had fulfilled this
request, he went into the chamber where the old witch was, and asked,
What does she deserve who does this and that? and related what had
happened. Then was she so blinded that she was aware of nothing and
said, “She deserves to be stripped naked, and put into a barrel with
nails, and that a horse should be harnessed to the barrel, and the
horse sent all over the world.” All of which was done to her, and to
her black daughter. But the King married the white and beautiful bride,
and rewarded her faithful brother, and made him a rich and
distinguished man.

136 Iron John