On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger,
however much it hurt him. But the time was long to him, and he looked
at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water. And as he
still bent down more and more while he was doing so, and trying to look
straight into the eyes, his long hair fell down from his shoulders into
the water. He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of
his head was already golden and shone like the sun. You may imagine how
terrified the poor boy was! He took his pocket-handkerchief and tied it
round his head, in order that the man might not see it. When he came he
already knew everything, and said, “Take the handkerchief off.” Then
the golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy excuse himself as he
might, it was of no use. “Thou hast not stood the trial, and canst stay
here no longer. Go forth into the world, there thou wilt learn what
poverty is. But as thou hast not a bad heart, and as I mean well by
thee, there is one thing I will grant thee; if thou fallest into any
difficulty, come to the forest and cry, ‘Iron John,’ and then I will
come and help thee. My power is great, greater than thou thinkest, and
I have gold and silver in abundance.”

Then the King’s son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten
paths ever onwards until at length he reached a great city. There he
looked for work, but could find none, and he had learnt nothing by
which he could help himself. At length he went to the palace, and asked
if they would take him in. The people about court did not at all know
what use they could make of him, but they liked him, and told him to
stay. At length the cook took him into his service, and said he might
carry wood and water, and rake the cinders together. Once when it so
happened that no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry
the food to the royal table, but as he did not like to let his golden
hair be seen, he kept his little cap on. Such a thing as that had never
yet come under the King’s notice, and he said, “When thou comest to the
royal table thou must take thy hat off.” He answered, “Ah, Lord, I
cannot; I have a bad sore place on my head.” Then the King had the cook
called before him and scolded him, and asked how he could take such a
boy as that into his service; and that he was to turn him off at once.
The cook, however, had pity on him, and exchanged him for the
gardener’s boy.