The King said to his daughter, “I will proclaim a great feast that
shall last for three days, and thou shalt throw a golden apple. Perhaps
the unknown will come to it.” When the feast was announced, the youth
went out to the forest, and called Iron John. “What dost thou desire?”
asked he. “That I may catch the King’s daughter’s golden apple.” “It is
as safe as if thou hadst it already,” said Iron John. “Thou shalt
likewise have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a
spirited chestnut-horse.” When the day came, the youth galloped to the
spot, took his place amongst the knights, and was recognized by no one.
The King’s daughter came forward, and threw a golden apple to the
knights, but none of them caught it but he, only as soon as he had it
he galloped away.

On the second day Iron John equipped him as a white knight, and gave
him a white horse. Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and
he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it. The King grew
angry, and said, “That is not allowed; he must appear before me and
tell his name.” He gave the order that if the knight who caught the
apple, should go away again they should pursue him, and if he would not
come back willingly, they were to cut him down and stab him.

On the third day, he received from Iron John a suit of black armour and
a black horse, and again he caught the apple. But when he was riding
off with it, the King’s attendants pursued him, and one of them got so
near him that he wounded the youth’s leg with the point of his sword.
The youth nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so
violently that the helmet fell from the youth’s head, and they could
see that he had golden hair. They rode back and announced this to the
King.

The following day the King’s daughter asked the gardener about his boy.
“He is at work in the garden; the queer creature has been at the
festival too, and only came home yesterday evening; he has likewise
shown my children three golden apples which he has won.”