The King had him summoned into his presence, and he came and again had
his little cap on his head. But the King’s daughter went up to him and
took it off, and then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders, and
he was so handsome that all were amazed. “Art thou the knight who came
every day to the festival, always in different colours, and who caught
the three golden apples?” asked the King. “Yes,” answered he, “and here
the apples are,” and he took them out of his pocket, and returned them
to the King. “If you desire further proof, you may see the wound which
your people gave me when they followed me. But I am likewise the knight
who helped you to your victory over your enemies.” “If thou canst
perform such deeds as that, thou art no gardener’s boy; tell me, who is
thy father?” “My father is a mighty King, and gold have I in plenty as
great as I require.” “I well see,” said the King, “that I owe thanks to
thee; can I do anything to please thee?” “Yes,” answered he, “that
indeed you can. Give me your daughter to wife.” The maiden laughed, and
said, “He does not stand much on ceremony, but I have already seen by
his golden hair that he was no gardener’s boy,” and then she went and
kissed him. His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in
great delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear
son again. And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music
suddenly stopped, the doors opened, and a stately King came in with a
great retinue. He went up to the youth, embraced him and said, “I am
Iron John, and was by enchantment a wild man, but thou hast set me
free; all the treasures which I possess, shall be thy property.”

137 The Three Black Princesses

East India was besieged by an enemy who would not retire until he had
received six hundred dollars. Then the townsfolk caused it to be
proclaimed by beat of drum that whosoever was able to procure the money
should be burgomaster. Now there was a poor fisherman who fished on the
lake with his son, and the enemy came and took the son prisoner, and
gave the father six hundred dollars for him. So the father went and
gave them to the great men of the town, and the enemy departed, and the
fisherman became burgomaster. Then it was proclaimed that whosoever did
not say, “Mr. Burgomaster,” should be put to death on the gallows.