The son got away again from the enemy, and came to a great forest on a
high mountain. The mountain opened, and he went into a great enchanted
castle, wherein chairs, tables, and benches were all hung with black.
Then came three young princesses who were entirely dressed in black,
but had a little white on their faces; they told him he was not to be
afraid, they would not hurt him, and that he could deliver them. He
said he would gladly do that, if he did but know how. At this, they
told him he must for a whole year not speak to them and also not look
at them, and what he wanted to have he was just to ask for, and if they
dared give him an answer they would do so. When he had been there for a
long while he said he should like to go to his father, and they told
him he might go. He was to take with him this purse with money, put on
this coat, and in a week he must be back there again.

Then he was caught up, and was instantly in East India. He could no
longer find his father in the fisherman’s hut, and asked the people
where the poor fisherman could be, and they told him he must not say
that, or he would come to the gallows. Then he went to his father and
said, “Fisherman, how hast thou got here?” Then the father said, “Thou
must not say that, if the great men of the town knew of that, thou
wouldst come to the gallows.” He, however, would not stop, and was
brought to the gallows. When he was there, he said, “O, my masters,
just give me leave to go to the old fisherman’s hut.” Then he put on
his old smock-frock, and came back to the great men, and said, “Do ye
not now see? Am I not the son of the poor fisherman? Did I not earn
bread for my father and mother in this dress?” Hereupon his father knew
him again, and begged his pardon, and took him home with him, and then
he related all that had happened to him, and how he had got into a
forest on a high mountain, and the mountain had opened and he had gone
into an enchanted castle, where all was black, and three young
princesses had come to him who were black except a little white on
their faces. And they had told him not to fear, and that he could
deliver them. Then his mother said that might very likely not be a good
thing to do, and that he ought to take a holy-water vessel with him,
and drop some boiling water on their faces.