He went back again, and he was in great fear, and he dropped the water
on their faces as they were sleeping, and they all turned half-white.
Then all the three princesses sprang up, and said, “Thou accursed dog,
our blood shall cry for vengeance on thee! Now there is no man born in
the world, nor will any ever be born who can set us free! We have still
three brothers who are bound by seven chains they shall tear thee to
pieces.” Then there was a loud shrieking all over the castle, and he
sprang out of the window, and broke his leg, and the castle sank into
the earth again, the mountain shut to again, and no one knew where the
castle had stood.

138 Knoist and his Three Sons

Between Werrel and Soist there lived a man whose name was Knoist, and
he had three sons. One was blind, the other lame, and the third
stark-naked. Once on a time they went into a field, and there they saw
a hare. The blind one shot it, the lame one caught it, the naked one
put it in his pocket. Then they came to a mighty big lake, on which
there were three boats, one sailed, one sank, the third had no bottom
to it. They all three got into the one with no bottom to it. Then they
came to a mighty big forest in which there was a mighty big tree; in
the tree was a mighty big chapel in the chapel was a sexton made of
beech-wood and a box-wood parson, who dealt out holy-water with
cudgels.

“How truly happy is that one
Who can from holy water run!”

139 The Maid of Brakel

A girl from Brakel once went to St. Anne’s Chapel at the foot of the
Hinnenberg, and as she wanted to have a husband, and thought there was
no one else in the chapel, she sang,

“Oh, holy Saint Anne!
Help me soon to a man.
His hair it is golden,
Thou know’st him right well.”

The clerk, however, was standing behind the altar and heard that, so he
cried in a very gruff voice, “Thou shalt not have him! Thou shalt not
have him!” The maiden thought that the child Mary who stood by her
mother Anne had called out that to her, and was angry, and cried,
“Fiddle de dee, conceited thing, hold your tongue, and let your mother
speak!”

140 Domestic Servants

“Whither goest thou?” “To Walpe.” “I to Walpe, thou to Walpe, so, so,
together we’ll go.”