Once on a time there lived a King and a Queen, who were rich, and had
everything they wanted, but no children. The Queen lamented over this
day and night, and said, “I am like a field on which nothing grows.” At
last God gave her her wish, but when the child came into the world, it
did not look like a human child, but was a little donkey. When the
mother saw that, her lamentations and outcries began in real earnest;
she said she would far rather have had no child at all than have a
donkey, and that they were to throw it into the water that the fishes
might devour it. But the King said, “No, since God has sent him he
shall be my son and heir, and after my death sit on the royal throne,
and wear the kingly crown.” The donkey, therefore, was brought up and
grew bigger, and his ears grew up beautifully high and straight. He
was, however, of a merry disposition, jumped about, played and had
especial pleasure in music, so that he went to a celebrated musician
and said, “Teach me thine art, that I may play the lute as well as thou
dost.” “Ah, dear little master,” answered the musician, “that would
come very hard to you, your fingers are certainly not suited to it, and
are far too big. I am afraid the strings would not last.” No excuses
were of any use. The donkey was determined to play the lute; he was
persevering and industrious, and at last learnt to do it as well as the
master himself. The young lordling once went out walking full of
thought and came to a well, he looked into it and in the mirror-clear
water saw his donkey’s form. He was so distressed about it, that he
went out into the wide world and only took with him one faithful
companion. They travelled up and down, and at last they came into a
kingdom where an old King reigned who had an only but wonderfully
beautiful daughter. The donkey said, “Here we will stay,” knocked at
the gate, and cried, “A guest is without open, that he may enter.” As,
however, the gate was not opened, he sat down, took his lute and played
it in the most delightful manner with his two fore-feet. Then the
door-keeper opened his eyes most wonderfully wide, and ran to the King
and said, “Outside by the gate sits a young donkey which plays the lute
as well as an experienced master!” “Then let the musician come to me,”
said the King. When, however, a donkey came in, every one began to
laugh at the lute-player. And now the donkey was asked to sit down and
eat with the servants.