He, however, was unwilling, and said, “I am no
common stable-ass, I am a noble one.” Then they said, “If that is what
be as thou wilt, little ass, come here to me.” Then he asked, “Little
ass, how does my daughter please thee?” The donkey turned his head
towards her, looked at her, nodded and said, “I like her above measure,
I have never yet seen anyone so beautiful as she is.” “Well, then, thou
shalt sit next her too,” said the King. “That is exactly what I wish,”
said the donkey, and he placed himself by her side, ate and drank, and
knew how to behave himself daintily and cleanly. When the noble beast
had stayed a long time at the King’s court, he thought, “What good does
all this do me, I shall still have to go home again?” let his head hang
sadly, and went to the King and asked for his dismissal. But the King
had grown fond of him, and said, “Little ass, what ails thee? Thou
lookest as sour as a jug of vinegar, I will give thee what thou
wantest. Dost thou want gold?” “No,” said the donkey, and shook his
head. “Dost thou want jewels and rich dress?” “No.” “Dost thou wish for
half my kingdom?” “Indeed, no.” Then said the King, “if I did but know
what would make thee content. Wilt thou have my pretty daughter to
wife?” “Ah, yes,” said the ass, “I should indeed like her,” and all at
once he became quite merry and full of happiness, for that was exactly
what he was wishing for. So a great and splendid wedding was held. In
the evening, when the bride and bridegroom were led into their
bed-room, the King wanted to know if the ass would behave well, and
ordered a servant to hide himself there. When they were both within,
the bridegroom bolted the door, looked around, and as he believed that
they were quite alone, he suddenly threw off his ass’s skin, and stood
there in the form of a handsome royal youth. “Now,” said he, “thou
seest who I am, and seest also that I am not unworthy of thee.” Then
the bride was glad, and kissed him, and loved him dearly. When morning
came, he jumped up, put his animal’s skin on again, and no one could
have guessed what kind of a form was hidden beneath it. Soon came the
old King, “Ah,” cried he, “is the little ass merry? But surely thou art
sad?” said he to his daughter, “that thou hast not got a proper man for
thy husband?” “Oh, no, dear father, I love him as well as if he were
the handsomest in the world, and I will keep him as long as I live.”
The King was surprised, but the servant who had concealed himself came
and revealed everything to him.