145 The Ungrateful Son

A man and his wife were once sitting by the door of their house, and
they had a roasted chicken set before them, and were about to eat it
together. Then the man saw that his aged father was coming, and hastily
took the chicken and hid it, for he would not permit him to have any of
it. The old man came, took a drink, and went away. Now the son wanted
to put the roasted chicken on the table again, but when he took it up,
it had become a great toad, which jumped into his face and sat there
and never went away again, and if any one wanted to take it off, it
looked venomously at him as if it would jump in his face, so that no
one would venture to touch it. And the ungrateful son was forced to
feed the toad every day, or else it fed itself on his face; and thus he
went about the world without knowing rest.

146 The Turnip

There were once two brothers who both served as soldiers; one of them
was rich, and the other poor. Then the poor one, to escape from his
poverty, put off his soldier’s coat, and turned farmer. He dug and hoed
his bit of land, and sowed it with turnip-seed. The seed came up, and
one turnip grew there which became large and vigorous, and visibly grew
bigger and bigger, and seemed as if it would never stop growing, so
that it might have been called the princess of turnips, for never was
such an one seen before, and never will such an one be seen again.

At length it was so enormous that by itself it filled a whole cart, and
two oxen were required to draw it, and the farmer had not the least
idea what he was to do with the turnip, or whether it would be a
fortune to him or a misfortune. At last he thought, “If thou sellest
it, what wilt thou get for it that is of any importance, and if thou
eatest it thyself, why, the small turnips would do thee just as much
good; it would be better to take it to the King, and make him a present
of it.”

So he placed it on a cart, harnessed two oxen, took it to the palace,
and presented it to the King. “What strange thing is this?” said the
King. “Many wonderful things have come before my eyes, but never such a
monster as this! From what seed can this have sprung, or are you a
luck-child and have met with it by chance?” “Ah, no!” said the farmer,
“no luck-child am I. I am a poor soldier, who because he could no
longer support himself hung his soldier’s coat on a nail and took to
farming land. I have a brother who is rich and well known to you, Lord
King, but I, because I have nothing, am forgotten by every one.”