A certain King had three sons who were all equally dear to him, and he
did not know which of them to appoint as his successor after his own
death. When the time came when he was about to die, he summoned them to
his bedside and said, “Dear children, I have been thinking of something
which I will declare unto you; whichsoever of you is the laziest shall
have the kingdom.” The eldest said, “Then, father, the kingdom is mine,
for I am so idle that if I lie down to rest, and a drop falls in my
eye, I will not open it that I may sleep.” The second said; “Father,
the kingdom belongs to me, for I am so idle that when I am sitting by
the fire warming myself, I would rather let my heel be burnt off than
draw back my leg.” The third said, “Father, the kingdom is mine, for I
am so idle that if I were going to be hanged, and had the rope already
round my neck, and any one put a sharp knife into my hand with which I
might cut the rope, I would rather let myself be hanged than raise my
hand to the rope.” When the father heard that, he said, “Thou hast
carried it the farthest, and shalt be King.”

151* The Twelve Idle Servants

Twelve servants who had done nothing all the day would not exert
themselves at night either, but laid themselves on the grass and
boasted of their idleness. The first said, “What is your laziness to
me, I have to concern myself about mine own? The care of my body is my
principal work, I eat not a little and drink still more. When I have
had four meals, I fast a short time until I feel hunger again, and that
suits me best. To rise betimes is not for me; when it is getting near
mid-day, I already seek out a resting-place for myself. If the master
call, I do exactly as if I had not heard him, and if he call for the
second time, I wait awhile before I get up, and go to him very slowly.
In this way life is endurable.”

The second said, “I have a horse to look after, but I leave the bit in
his mouth, and if I do not want to do it, I give him no food, and I say
he has had it already. I, however, lay myself in the oat-chest and
sleep for four hours. After this I stretch out one foot and move it a
couple of times over the horse’s body, and then he is combed and
cleaned. Who is going to make a great business of that? Nevertheless
service is too toilsome for me.”