A sparrow had four young ones in a swallow’s nest. When they were
fledged, some naughty boys pulled out the nest, but fortunately all the
birds got safely away in the high wind. Then the old bird was grieved
that as his sons had all gone out into the world, he had not first
warned them of every kind of danger, and given them good instruction
how to deal with each. In the autumn a great many sparrows assembled
together in a wheatfield, and there the old bird met his four children
again, and full of joy took them home with him. “Ah, my dear sons, what
pain I have been in about you all through the summer, because you got
away in the wind without my teaching; listen to my words, obey your
father, and be well on your guard. Little birds have to encounter great
dangers!” And then he asked the eldest where he had spent the summer,
and how he had supported himself? “I stayed in the gardens, and looked
for caterpillars and small worms, until the cherries got ripe.” “Ah, my
son,” said the father, “tit-bits are not bad, but there is great risk
about them; on that account take great care of thyself henceforth, and
particularly when people are going about the gardens who carry long
green poles which are hollow inside and have a little hole at the top.”
“Yes, father, but what if a little green leaf is stuck over the hole
with wax?” said the son. “Where hast thou seen that?” “In a merchant’s
garden,” said the youngster. “Oh, my son, merchant folks are quick
folks,” said the father. “If thou hast been among the children of the
world, thou hast learned worldly shiftiness enough, only see that thou
usest it well, and do not be too confident.” After this he asked the
next, “Where hast thou passed thy time?” “At court,” said the son. “Sparrows and silly little birds are of no use in that place—there one
finds much gold, velvet, silk, armour, harnesses, sparrow-hawks,
screech-owls and hen-harriers; keep to the horses’ stable where they
winnow oats, or thresh, and then fortune may give thee thy daily grain
of corn in peace.” “Yes, father,” said the son, “but when the
stable-boys make traps and fix their gins and snares in the straw, many
a one is caught fast.” “Where hast thou seen that?” said the old bird. “At court, among the stable-boys.” “Oh, my son, court boys are bad
boys!