If thou hast been to court and among the lords, and hast left no
feathers there, thou hast learnt a fair amount, and wilt know very well
how to go about the world, but look around thee and above thee, for the
wolves devour the wisest dogs.” The father examined the third also:
“Where didst thou seek thy safety?” “I have broken up tubs and ropes on
the cart-roads and highways, and sometimes met with a grain of corn or
barley.” “That is indeed dainty fare,” said the father, “but take care
what thou art about and look carefully around, especially when thou
seest any one stooping and about to pick up a stone, there is not much
time to stay then.” “That is true,” said the son, “but what if any one
should carry a bit of rock, or ore, ready beforehand in his breast or
pocket?” “Where hast thou seen that?” “Among the mountaineers, dear
father; when they go out, they generally take little bits of ore with
them.” “Mountain folks are working folks, and clever folks. If thou
hast been among mountain lads, thou hast seen and learnt something, but
when thou goest thither beware, for many a sparrow has been brought to
a bad end by a mountain boy.” At length the father came to the youngest
son: “Thou, my dear chirping nestling, wert always the silliest and
weakest; stay with me, the world has many rough, wicked birds which
have crooked beaks and long claws, and lie in wait for poor little
birds and swallow them. Keep with those of thine own kind, and pick up
little spiders and caterpillars from the trees, or the house, and then
thou wilt live long in peace.” “My dear father, he who feeds himself
without injury to other people fares well, and no sparrow-hawk, eagle,
or kite will hurt him if he specially commits himself and his lawful
food, evening and morning, faithfully to God, who is the Creator and
Preserver of all forest and village birds, who likewise heareth the cry
and prayer of the young ravens, for no sparrow or wren ever falls to
the ground except by his will.” “Where hast thou learnt this?” The son
answered, “When the great blast of wind tore me away from thee I came
to a church, and there during the summer I have picked up the flies and
spiders from the windows, and heard this discourse preached. The Father
of all sparrows fed me all the summer through, and kept me from all
mischance and from ferocious birds.”