I will tell you something. I saw two roasted fowls flying; they flew
quickly and had their breasts turned to heaven and their backs to hell,
and an anvil and a mill-stone swam across the Rhine prettily, slowly,
and gently, and a frog sat on the ice at Whitsuntide and ate a
ploughshare. Three fellows who wanted to catch a hare, went on crutches
and stilts; one of them was deaf, the second blind, the third dumb, and
the fourth could not stir a step. Do you want to know how it was done?
First, the blind man saw the hare running across the field, the dumb
one called to the lame one, and the lame one seized it by the neck.

There were certain men who wished to sail on dry land, and they set
their sails in the wind, and sailed away over great fields. Then they
sailed over a high mountain, and there they were miserably drowned. A
crab was chasing a hare which was running away at full speed, and high
up on the roof lay a cow which had climbed up there. In that country
the flies are as big as the goats are here. Open the window, that the
lies may fly out.

160 A Riddling Tale

Three women were changed into flowers which grew in the field, but one
of them was allowed to be in her own home at night. Then once when day
was drawing near, and she was forced to go back to her companions in
the field and become a flower again, she said to her husband, “If thou
wilt come this afternoon and gather me, I shall be set free and
henceforth stay with thee.” And he did so. Now the question is, how did
her husband know her, for the flowers were exactly alike, and without
any difference? Answer: as she was at her home during the night and not
in the field, no dew fell on her as it did on the others, and by this
her husband knew her.

161 Snow-White and Rose-Red

There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage. In front of
the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which
bore white and the other red roses. She had two children who were like
the two rose-trees, and one was called Snow-white, and the other
Rose-red. They were as good and happy, as busy and cheerful as ever two
children in the world were, only Snow-white was more quiet and gentle
than Rose-red. Rose-red liked better to run about in the meadows and
fields seeking flowers and catching butterflies; but Snow-white sat at
home with her mother, and helped her with her house-work, or read to
her when there was nothing to do.