A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest to
get fire-wood. There they found a big tree which lay felled on the
ground, and close by the trunk something was jumping backwards and
forwards in the grass, but they could not make out what it was. When
they came nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a
snow-white beard a yard long. The end of the beard was caught in a
crevice of the tree, and the little fellow was jumping backwards and
forwards like a dog tied to a rope, and did not know what to do.

He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried, “Why do you
stand there? Can you not come here and help me?” “What are you about
there, little man?” asked Rose-red. “You stupid, prying goose!”
answered the dwarf; “I was going to split the tree to get a little wood
for cooking. The little bit of food that one of us wants gets burnt up
directly with thick logs; we do not swallow so much as you coarse,
greedy folk. I had just driven the wedge safely in, and everything was
going as I wished; but the wretched wood was too smooth and suddenly
sprang asunder, and the tree closed so quickly that I could not pull
out my beautiful white beard; so now it is tight in and I cannot get
away, and the silly, sleek, milk-faced things laugh! Ugh! how odious
you are!”

The children tried very hard, but they could not pull the beard out, it
was caught too fast. “I will run and fetch some one,” said Rose-red.
“You senseless goose!” snarled the dwarf; “why should you fetch some
one? You are already two too many for me; can you not think of
something better?” “Don’t be impatient,” said Snow-white, “I will help
you,” and she pulled her scissors out of her pocket, and cut off the
end of the beard.

As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he laid hold of a bag which lay
amongst the roots of the tree, and which was full of gold, and lifted
it up, grumbling to himself, “Uncouth people, to cut off a piece of my
fine beard. Bad luck to you!” and then he swung the bag upon his back,
and went off without even once looking at the children.