Some time after that Snow-white and Rose-red went to catch a dish of
fish. As they came near the brook they saw something like a large
grasshopper jumping towards the water, as if it were going to leap in.
They ran to it and found it was the dwarf. “Where are you going?” said
Rose-red; “you surely don’t want to go into the water?” “I am not such
a fool!” cried the dwarf; “don’t you see that the accursed fish wants
to pull me in?” The little man had been sitting there fishing, and
unluckily the wind had twisted his beard with the fishing-line; just
then a big fish bit, and the feeble creature had not strength to pull
it out; the fish kept the upper hand and pulled the dwarf towards him.
He held on to all the reeds and rushes, but it was of little good, he
was forced to follow the movements of the fish, and was in urgent
danger of being dragged into the water.

The girls came just in time; they held him fast and tried to free his
beard from the line, but all in vain, beard and line were entangled
fast together. Nothing was left but to bring out the scissors and cut
the beard, whereby a small part of it was lost. When the dwarf saw that
he screamed out, “Is that civil, you toad-stool, to disfigure one’s
face? Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard? Now you have
cut off the best part of it. I cannot let myself be seen by my people.
I wish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes!” Then he took
out a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes, and without saying a word
more he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone.

It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children to
the town to buy needles and thread, and laces and ribbons. The road led
them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn here and
there. Now they noticed a large bird hovering in the air, flying slowly
round and round above them; it sank lower and lower, and at last
settled near a rock not far off. Directly afterwards they heard a loud,
piteous cry. They ran up and saw with horror that the eagle had seized
their old acquaintance the dwarf, and was going to carry him off.