How fortunate is the master, and how well all goes in his house, when
he has a wise servant who listens to his orders and does not obey them,
but prefers following his own wisdom. A clever John of this kind was
once sent out by his master to seek a lost cow. He stayed away a long
time, and the master thought, “Faithful John does not spare any pains
over his work!” As, however, he did not come back at all, the master
was afraid lest some misfortune had befallen him, and set out himself
to look for him. He had to search a long time, but at last he perceived
the boy who was running up and down a large field. “Now, dear John,”
said the master when he had got up to him, “hast thou found the cow
which I sent thee to seek?” “No, master,” he answered, “I have not
found the cow, but then I have not looked for it.” “Then what hast thou
looked for, John?” “Something better, and that luckily I have found.”
“What is that, John?” “Three blackbirds,” answered the boy. “And where
are they?” asked the master. “I see one of them, I hear the other, and
I am running after the third,” answered the wise boy.

Take example by this, do not trouble yourselves about your masters or
their orders, but rather do what comes into your head and pleases you,
and then you will act just as wisely as prudent John.

163 The Glass Coffin

Let no one ever say that a poor tailor cannot do great things and win
high honors; all that is needed is that he should go to the right
smithy, and what is of most consequence, that he should have good luck.
A civil, adroit tailor’s apprentice once went out travelling, and came
into a great forest, and, as he did not know the way, he lost himself.
Night fell, and nothing was left for him to do, but to seek a bed in
this painful solitude. He might certainly have found a good bed on the
soft moss, but the fear of wild beasts let him have no rest there, and
at last he was forced to make up his mind to spend the night in a tree.
He sought out a high oak, climbed up to the top of it, and thanked God
that he had his goose with him, for otherwise the wind which blew over
the top of the tree would have carried him away.