The tailor, who had watched the fight with astonishment, was still
standing there motionless, when the stag in full career bounded up to
him, and before he could escape, caught him up on his great horns. He
had not much time to collect his thoughts, for it went in a swift race
over stock and stone, mountain and valley, wood and meadow. He held
with both hands to the tops of the horns, and resigned himself to his
fate. It seemed, however, to him just as if he were flying away. At
length the stag stopped in front of a wall of rock, and gently let the
tailor down. The tailor, more dead than alive, required a longer time
than that to come to himself. When he had in some degree recovered, the
stag, which had remained standing by him, pushed its horns with such
force against a door which was in the rock, that it sprang open. Flames
of fire shot forth, after which followed a great smoke, which hid the
stag from his sight. The tailor did not know what to do, or whither to
turn, in order to get out of this desert and back to human beings
again. Whilst he was standing thus undecided, a voice sounded out of
the rock, which cried to him, “Enter without fear, no evil shall befall
you thee.” He hesitated, but driven by a mysterious force, he obeyed
the voice and went through the iron-door into a large spacious hall,
whose ceiling, walls and floor were made of shining polished square
stones, on each of which were cut letters which were unknown to him. He
looked at everything full of admiration, and was on the point of going
out again, when he once more heard the voice which said to him, “Step
on the stone which lies in the middle of the hall, and great good
fortune awaits thee.”

His courage had already grown so great that he obeyed the order. The
stone began to give way under his feet, and sank slowly down into the
depths. When it was once more firm, and the tailor looked round, he
found himself in a hall which in size resembled the former. Here,
however, there was more to look at and to admire. Hollow places were
cut in the walls, in which stood vases of transparent glass which were
filled with colored spirit or with a bluish vapour. On the floor of the
hall two great glass chests stood opposite to each other, which at once
excited his curiosity. When he went to one of them he saw inside it a
handsome structure like a castle surrounded by farm-buildings, stables
and barns, and a quantity of other good things. Everything was small,