As soon as the stone was laden, it began to rise up on high with the
maiden and the young man, and mounted through the opening of the
ceiling into the upper hall, from whence they then could easily reach
the open air. Here the maiden opened the lid, and it was marvellous to
behold how the castle, the houses, and the farm buildings which were
enclosed, stretched themselves out and grew to their natural size with
the greatest rapidity. After this, the maiden and the tailor returned
to the cave beneath the earth, and had the vessels which were filled
with smoke carried up by the stone. The maiden had scarcely opened the
bottles when the blue smoke rushed out and changed itself into living
men, in whom she recognized her servants and her people. Her joy was
still more increased when her brother, who had killed the magician in
the form of the bull, came out of the forest towards them in his human
form, and on the self-same day the maiden, in accordance with her
promise, gave her hand at the altar to the lucky tailor.

164 Lazy Harry

Harry was lazy, and although he had nothing else to do but drive his
goat daily to pasture, he nevertheless groaned when he went home after
his day’s work was done. “It is indeed a heavy burden,” said he, “and a
wearisome employment to drive a goat into the field this way year after
year, till late into the autumn! If one could but lie down and sleep,
but no, one must have one’s eyes open lest it hurts the young trees, or
squeezes itself through the hedge into a garden, or runs away
altogether. How can one have any rest, or peace of one’s life?” He
seated himself, collected his thoughts, and considered how he could set
his shoulders free from this burden. For a long time all thinking was
to no purpose, but suddenly it was as if scales fell from his eyes. “I
know what I will do,” he cried, “I will marry fat Trina who has also a
goat, and can take mine out with hers, and then I shall have no more
need to trouble myself.”

So Harry got up, set his weary legs in motion, and went right across
the street, for it was no farther, to where the parents of fat Trina
lived, and asked for their industrious and virtuous daughter in
marriage. The parents did not reflect long. “Birds of a feather, flock
together,” they thought, and consented.

So fat Trina became Harry’s wife, and led out both the goats. Harry had
a good time of it, and had no work that he required to rest from but
his own idleness. He only went out with her now and then, and said, “I
merely do it that I may afterwards enjoy rest more, otherwise one loses
all feeling for it.”