When he had gone a short way he met a little iron man who asked him
what he had there in the basket, to which replied Uele, for so was he
named, “Frogs’ legs.” On this the little man said, “Well, so shall it
be, and remain,” and went away. At length Uele arrived at the palace,
and made it known that he had brought apples which would cure the
King’s daughter if she ate them. This delighted the King hugely, and he
caused Uele to be brought before him; but, alas! when he opened the
basket, instead of having apples in it he had frogs’ legs which were
still kicking about. On this the King grew angry, and had him driven
out of the house. When he got home he told his father how it had fared
with him. Then the father sent the next son, who was called Seame, but
all went with him just as it had gone with Uele. He also met the little
iron man, who asked what he had there in the basket. Seame said, “Hogs’
bristles,” and the iron man said, “well, so shall it be, and remain.”
When Seame got to the King’s palace and said he brought apples with
which the King’s daughter might eat herself well, they did not want to
let him go in, and said that one fellow had already been there, and had
treated them as if they were fools. Seame, however, maintained that he
certainly had the apples, and that they ought to let him go in. At
length they believed him, and led him to the King. But when he
uncovered the basket, he had but hogs’ bristles. This enraged the King
most terribly, so he caused Seame to be whipped out of the house. When
he got home he related all that had befallen him, then the youngest
boy, whose name was Hans, but who was always called Stupid Hans, came
and asked his father if he might go with some apples. “Oh!” said the
father, “thou wouldst be just the right fellow for such a thing! If the
clever ones can’t manage it, what canst thou do?” The boy, however, did
not believe him, and said, “Indeed, father, I wish to go.” “Just get
away, thou stupid fellow, thou must wait till thou art wiser,” said the
father to that, and turned his back. Hans, however, pulled at the back
of his smock-frock and said, “Indeed, father, I wish to go.” “Well,
then, so far as I am concerned thou mayst go, but thou wilt soon come
home again!” replied the old man in a spiteful voice. The boy, however,
was tremendously delighted and jumped for joy. “Well, act like a fool! thou growest more stupid every day!” said the father again. Hans,
however, did not care about that, and did not let it spoil his
pleasure, but as it was then night, he thought he might as well wait
until the morrow, for he could not get to court that day.