All night
long he could not sleep in his bed, and if he did doze for a moment, he
dreamt of beautiful maidens, of palaces, of gold, and of silver, and
all kinds of things of that sort. Early in the morning, he went forth
on his way, and directly afterwards the little shabby-looking man in
his iron clothes, came to him and asked what he was carrying in the
basket. Hans gave him the answer that he was carrying apples with which
the King’s daughter was to eat herself well. “Then,” said the little
man, “so shall they be, and remain.” But at the court they would none
of them let Hans go in, for they said two had already been there who
had told them that they were bringing apples, and one of them had
frogs’ legs, and the other hogs’ bristles. Hans, however, resolutely
maintained that he most certainly had no frogs’ legs, but some of the
most beautiful apples in the whole kingdom. As he spoke so pleasantly,
the door-keeper thought he could not be telling a lie, and asked him to
go in, and he was right, for when Hans uncovered his basket in the
King’s presence, golden-yellow apples came tumbling out. The King was
delighted, and caused some of them to be taken to his daughter, and
then waited in anxious expectation until news should be brought to him
of the effect they had. But before much time had passed by, news was
brought to him: but who do you think it was who came? it was his
daughter herself! As soon as she had eaten of those apples, she was
cured, and sprang out of her bed. The joy the King felt cannot be
described! but now he did not want to give his daughter in marriage to
Hans, and said he must first make him a boat which would go quicker on
dry land than on water. Hans agreed to the conditions, and went home,
and related how it had fared with him. Then the father sent Uele into
the forest to make a boat of that kind. He worked diligently, and
whistled all the time. At mid-day, when the sun was at the highest,
came the little iron man and asked what he was making? Uele gave him
for answer, “Wooden bowls for the kitchen.” The iron man said, “So it
shall be, and remain.” By evening Uele thought he had now made the
boat, but when he wanted to get into it, he had nothing but wooden
bowls. The next day Seame went into the forest, but everything went
with him just as it had done with Uele. On the third day Stupid Hans
went. He worked away most industriously, so that the whole forest
resounded with the heavy strokes, and all the while he sang and
whistled right merrily. At mid-day, when it was the hottest, the little
man came again, and asked what he was making?