Before many hours had passed came a servant from the palace, and told
Hans that he must give her a hare instantly, for some visitors had come
unexpectedly. Hans, however, was very well aware what that meant, and
said he would not give her one; the King might set some hare soup
before his guest next day. The maid, however, would not believe in his
refusal, and at last she began to get angry with him. Then Hans said
that if the King’s daughter came herself, he would give her a hare. The
maid told this in the palace, and the daughter did go herself. In the
meantime, however, the little man came again to Hans, and asked him
what he was doing there? He said he had to watch over a hundred hares
and see that none of them ran away, and then he might marry the King’s
daughter and be King. “Good,” said the little man, “there is a whistle
for thee, and if one of them runs away, just whistle with it, and then
it will come back again.” When the King’s daughter came, Hans gave her
a hare into her apron; but when she had gone about a hundred steps with
it, he whistled, and the hare jumped out of the apron, and before she
could turn round was back to the flock again. When the evening came the
hare-herd whistled once more, and looked to see if all were there, and
then drove them to the palace. The King wondered how Hans had been able
to take a hundred hares to graze without losing any of them; he would,
however, not give him his daughter yet, and said he must now bring him
a feather from the Griffin’s tail. Hans set out at once, and walked
straight forwards. In the evening he came to a castle, and there he
asked for a night’s lodging, for at that time there were no inns. The
lord of the castle promised him that with much pleasure, and asked
where he was going? Hans answered, “To the Griffin.” “Oh! to the
Griffin! They tell me he knows everything, and I have lost the key of
an iron money-chest; so you might be so good as to ask him where it
is.” “Yes, indeed,” said Hans, “I will do that.” Early the next morning
he went onwards, and on his way arrived at another castle in which he
again stayed the night. When the people who lived there learnt that he
was going to the Griffin, they said they had in the house a daughter
who was ill, and that they had already tried every means to cure her,
but none of them had done her any good, and he might be so kind as to
ask the Griffin what would make their daughter healthy again? Hans said
he would willingly do that, and went onwards. Then he came to a lake,
and instead of a ferry-boat, a tall, tall man was there who had to
carry everybody across.