In the middle of the night when the Griffin was snoring loudly, Hans
reached out and plucked a feather from his tail. The Griffin woke up
instantly, and said, “Wife, I smell a Christian, and it seems to me
that somebody was pulling at my tail.” His wife said, “Thou hast
certainly been dreaming, and I told thee before that a Christian was
here to-day, but that he went away again. He told me all kinds of
things that in one castle they had lost the key of their money-chest,
and could find it nowhere.” “Oh! the fools!” said the Griffin; “the key
lies in the wood-house under a log of wood behind the door.” “And then
he said that in another castle the daughter was ill, and they knew no
remedy that would cure her.” “Oh! the fools!” said the Griffin; “under
the cellar-steps a toad has made its nest of her hair, and if she got
her hair back she would be well.” “And then he also said that there was
a place where there was a lake and a man beside it who was forced to
carry everybody across.” “Oh, the fool!” said the Griffin; “if he only
put one man down in the middle, he would never have to carry another
across.” Early the next morning the Griffin got up and went out. Then
Hans came forth from under the bed, and he had a beautiful feather, and
had heard what the Griffin had said about the key, and the daughter,
and the ferry-man. The Griffin’s wife repeated it all once more to him
that he might not forget it, and then he went home again. First he came
to the man by the lake, who asked him what the Griffin had said, but
Hans replied that he must first carry him across, and then he would
tell him. So the man carried him across, and when he was over Hans told
him that all he had to do was to set one person down in the middle of
the lake, and then he would never have to carry over any more. The man
was hugely delighted, and told Hans that out of gratitude he would take
him once more across, and back again. But Hans said no, he would save
him the trouble, he was quite satisfied already, and pursued his way. Then he came to the castle where the daughter was ill; he took her on
his shoulders, for she could not walk, and carried her down the
cellar-steps and pulled out the toad’s nest from beneath the lowest
step and gave it into her hand, and she sprang off his shoulder and up
the steps before him, and was quite cured. Then were the father and
mother beyond measure rejoiced, and they gave Hans gifts of gold and of
silver, and whatsoever else he wished for, that they gave him.