The woman stayed many years with the robbers, and Hans grew tall and
strong. His mother told him stories, and taught him to read an old book
of tales about knights which she found in the cave. When Hans was nine
years old, he made himself a strong club out of a branch of fir, hid it
behind the bed, and then went to his mother and said, “Dear mother,
pray tell me who is my father; I must and will know.” His mother was
silent and would not tell him, that he might not become home-sick;
moreover she knew that the godless robbers would not let him go away,
but it almost broke her heart that Hans should not go to his father. In
the night, when the robbers came home from their robbing expedition,
Hans brought out his club, stood before the captain, and said, “I now
wish to know who is my father, and if thou dost not at once tell me I
will strike thee down.” Then the captain laughed, and gave Hans such a
box on the ear that he rolled under the table. Hans got up again, held
his tongue, and thought, “I will wait another year and then try again,
perhaps I shall do better then.” When the year was over, he brought out
his club again, rubbed the dust off it, looked at it well, and said,
“It is a stout strong club.” At night the robbers came home, drank one
jug of wine after another, and their heads began to be heavy. Then Hans
brought out his club, placed himself before the captain, and asked him
who was his father? But the captain again gave him such a vigorous box
on the ear that Hans rolled under the table, but it was not long before
he was up again, and beat the captain and the robbers so with his club,
that they could no longer move either their arms or their legs. His
mother stood in a corner full of admiration of his bravery and
strength. When Hans had done his work, he went to his mother, and said,
“Now I have shown myself to be in earnest, but now I must also know who
is my father.” “Dear Hans,” answered the mother, “come, we will go and
seek him until we find him.” She took from the captain the key to the
entrance-door, and Hans fetched a great meal-sack and packed into it
gold and silver, and whatsoever else he could find that was beautiful,
until it was full, and then he took it on his back. They left the cave,
but how Hans did open his eyes when he came out of the darkness into
daylight, and saw the green forest, and the flowers, and the birds, and
the morning sun in the sky. He stood there and wondered at everything
just as if he had not been very wise.