His mother looked for the way
home, and when they had walked for a couple of hours, they got safely
into their lonely valley and to their little house. The father was
sitting in the doorway. He wept for joy when he recognized his wife and
heard that Hans was his son, for he had long regarded them both as
dead. But Hans, although he was not twelve years old, was a head taller
than his father. They went into the little room together, but Hans had
scarcely put his sack on the bench by the stove, than the whole house
began to crack the bench broke down and then the floor, and the heavy
sack fell through into the cellar. “God save us!” cried the father,
“what’s that? Now thou hast broken our little house to pieces!” “Don’t
grow any grey hairs about that, dear father,” answered Hans; “there, in
that sack, is more than is wanting for a new house.” The father and
Hans at once began to build a new house; to buy cattle and land, and to
keep a farm. Hans ploughed the fields, and when he followed the plough
and pushed it into the ground, the bullocks had scarcely any need to
draw. The next spring, Hans said, “Keep all the money and get a
walking-stick that weighs a hundred-weight made for me that I may go
a-travelling.” When the wished-for stick was ready, he left his
father’s house, went forth, and came to a deep, dark forest. There he
heard something crunching and cracking, looked round, and saw a
fir-tree which was wound round like a rope from the bottom to the top,
and when he looked upwards he saw a great fellow who had laid hold of
the tree and was twisting it like a willow-wand. “Hollo!” cried Hans,
“what art thou doing up there?” the fellow replied, “I got some faggots
together yesterday and am twisting a rope for them.” “That is what I
like,” thought Hans, “he has some strength,” and he called to him,
“Leave that alone, and come with me.” The fellow came down, and he was
taller by a whole head than Hans, and Hans was not little. “Thy name is
now Fir-twister,” said Hans to him. Thereupon they went further and
heard something knocking and hammering with such force that the ground
shook at every stroke. Shortly afterwards they came to a mighty rock,
before which a giant was standing and striking great pieces of it away
with his fist.