When Hans asked what he was about, he answered, “At
night, when I want to sleep, bears, wolves, and other vermin of that
kind come, which sniff and snuffle about me and won’t let me rest; so I
want to build myself a house and lay myself inside it, so that I may
have some peace.” “Oh, indeed,” thought Hans, “I can make use of this
one also;” and said to him, “Leave thy house-building alone, and go
with me; thou shalt be called Rock-splitter.” The man consented, and
they all three roamed through the forest, and wherever they went the
wild beasts were terrified, and ran away from them. In the evening they
came to an old deserted castle, went up into it, and laid themselves
down in the hall to sleep. The next morning Hans went into the garden. It had run quite wild, and was full of thorns and bushes. And as he was
thus walking round about, a wild boar rushed at him; he, however, gave
it such a blow with his club that it fell directly. He took it on his
shoulders and carried it in, and they put it on a spit, roasted it, and
enjoyed themselves. Then they arranged that each day, in turn, two
should go out hunting, and one should stay at home, and cook nine
pounds of meat for each of them. Fir-twister stayed at home the first,
and Hans and Rock-splitter went out hunting. When Fir-twister was busy
cooking, a little shrivelled-up old mannikin came to him in the castle,
and asked for some meat. “Be off, sly hypocrite,” he answered, “thou
needest no meat.” But how astonished Fir-twister was when the little
insignificant dwarf sprang up at him, and belaboured him so with his
fists that he could not defend himself, but fell on the ground and
gasped for breath! The dwarf did not go away until he had thoroughly
vented his anger on him. When the two others came home from hunting,
Fir-twister said nothing to them of the old mannikin and of the blows
which he himself had received, and thought, “When they stay at home,
they may just try their chance with the little scrubbing-brush;” and
the mere thought of that gave him pleasure already.