And now
Hans placed the maiden in the basket and had her drawn up; the basket
came down again, but Hans did not trust his two companions, and
thought, “They have already shown themselves to be false, and told me
nothing about the dwarf; who knows what design they may have against
me?” So he put his club in the basket, and it was lucky he did; for
when the basket was half-way up, they let it fall again, and if Hans
had really been sitting in it he would have been killed. But now he did
not know how he was to work his way out of the depths, and when he
turned it over and over in his mind he found no counsel. “It is indeed
sad,” said he to himself, “that I have to waste away down here,” and as
he was thus walking backwards and forwards, he once more came to the
little chamber where the maiden had been sitting, and saw that the
dwarf had a ring on his finger which shone and sparkled. Then he drew
it off and put it on, and when he turned it round on his finger, he
suddenly heard something rustle over his head. He looked up and saw
spirits of the air hovering above, who told him he was their master,
and asked what his desire might be? Hans was at first struck dumb, but
afterwards he said that they were to carry him above again. They obeyed
instantly, and it was just as if he had flown up himself. When,
however, he was above again, he found no one in sight. Fir-twister and
Rock-splitter had hurried away, and had taken the beautiful maiden with
them. But Hans turned the ring, and the spirits of the air came and
told him that the two were on the sea. Hans ran and ran without
stopping, until he came to the sea-shore, and there far, far out on the
water, he perceived a little boat in which his faithless comrades were
sitting; and in fierce anger he leapt, without thinking what he was
doing, club in hand into the water, and began to swim, but the club,
which weighed a hundredweight, dragged him deep down until he was all
but drowned. Then in the very nick of time he turned his ring, and
immediately the spirits of the air came and bore him as swift as
lightning into the boat. He swung his club and gave his wicked comrades
the reward they merited and threw them into the water, and then he
sailed with the beautiful maiden, who had been in the greatest alarm,
and whom he delivered for the second time, home to her father and
mother, and married her, and all rejoiced exceedingly.