Then said the old man, “Just go upstairs, and thou wilt find a room
with two beds, shake them up, and put white linen on them, and then I,
too, will come and lie down to sleep.” The girl went up, and when she
had shaken the beds and put clean sheets on, she lay down in one of
them without waiting any longer for the old man. After some time,
however, the gray-haired man came, took his candle, looked at the girl
and shook his head. When he saw that she had fallen into a sound sleep,
he opened a trap-door, and let her down into the cellar.

Late at night the wood-cutter came home, and reproached his wife for
leaving him to hunger all day. “It is not my fault,” she replied, “the
girl went out with your dinner, and must have lost herself, but she is
sure to come back to-morrow.” The wood-cutter, however, arose before
dawn to go into the forest, and requested that the second daughter
should take him his dinner that day. “I will take a bag with lentils,”
said he; “the seeds are larger than millet, the girl will see them
better, and can’t lose her way.” At dinner-time, therefore, the girl
took out the food, but the lentils had disappeared. The birds of the
forest had picked them up as they had done the day before, and had left
none. The girl wandered about in the forest until night, and then she
too reached the house of the old man, was told to go in, and begged for
food and a bed. The man with the white beard again asked the animals,

“Pretty little hen,
Pretty little cock,
And pretty brindled cow,
What say ye to that?”

The animals again replied “Duks,” and everything happened just as it
had happened the day before. The girl cooked a good meal, ate and drank
with the old man, and did not concern herself about the animals, and
when she inquired about her bed they answered,

“Thou hast eaten with him,
Thou hast drunk with him,
Thou hast had no thought for us,
To find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night.”

When she was asleep the old man came, looked at her, shook his head,
and let her down into the cellar.

On the third morning the wood-cutter said to his wife, “Send our
youngest child out with my dinner to-day, she has always been good and
obedient, and will stay in the right path, and not run about after
every wild humble-bee, as her sisters did.” The mother did not want to
do it, and said, “Am I to lose my dearest child, as well?”