“Have no fear,” he replied, “the girl will not go astray; she is too
prudent and sensible; besides I will take some peas with me, and strew
them about. They are still larger than lentils, and will show her the
way.” But when the girl went out with her basket on her arm, the
wood-pigeons had already got all the peas in their crops, and she did
not know which way she was to turn. She was full of sorrow and never
ceased to think how hungry her father would be, and how her good mother
would grieve, if she did not go home. At length when it grew dark, she
saw the light and came to the house in the forest. She begged quite
prettily to be allowed to spend the night there, and the man with the
white beard once more asked his animals,

“Pretty little hen,
Pretty little cock,
And beautiful brindled cow,
What say ye to that?”

“Duks,” said they. Then the girl went to the stove where the animals
were lying, and petted the cock and hen, and stroked their smooth
feathers with her hand, and caressed the brindled cow between her
horns, and when, in obedience to the old man’s orders, she had made
ready some good soup, and the bowl was placed upon the table, she said,
“Am I to eat as much as I want, and the good animals to have nothing?
Outside is food in plenty, I will look after them first.” So she went
and brought some barley and stewed it for the cock and hen, and a whole
armful of sweet-smelling hay for the cow. “I hope you will like it,
dear animals,” said she, “and you shall have a refreshing draught in
case you are thirsty.” Then she fetched in a bucketful of water, and
the cock and hen jumped on to the edge of it and dipped their beaks in,
and then held up their heads as the birds do when they drink, and the
brindled cow also took a hearty draught. When the animals were fed, the
girl seated herself at the table by the old man, and ate what he had
left. It was not long before the cock and the hen began to thrust their
heads beneath their wings, and the eyes of the cow likewise began to
blink. Then said the girl, “Ought we not to go to bed?”

“Pretty little hen,
Pretty little cock,
And pretty brindled cow,
What say ye to that?”

The animals answered “Duks,”

“Thou hast eaten with us,
Thou hast drunk with us,
Thou hast had kind thought for all of us,
We wish thee good-night.”

Then the maiden went upstairs, shook the feather-beds, and laid clean
sheets on them, and when she had done it the old man came and lay down
on one of the beds, and his white beard reached down to his feet. The
girl lay down on the other, said her prayers, and fell asleep.