“Thou, our King?” cried the birds angrily. “Thou hast compassed it by
trick and cunning!” So they made another condition. He should be King
who could go down lowest in the ground. How the goose did flap about
with its broad breast when it was once more on the land! How quickly
the cock scratched a hole! The duck came off the worst of all, for she
leapt into a ditch, but sprained her legs, and waddled away to a
neighboring pond, crying, “Cheating, cheating!” The little bird without
a name, however, sought out a mouse-hole, slipped down into it, and
cried out of it with his small voice, “I am King! I am King!”

“Thou our King!” cried the birds still more angrily. “Dost thou think
thy cunning shall prevail?” They determined to keep him a prisoner in
the hole and starve him out. The owl was placed as sentinel in front of
it, and was not to let the rascal out if she had any value for her
life. When evening was come all the birds were feeling very tired after
exerting their wings so much, so they went to bed with their wives and
children. The owl alone remained standing by the mouse-hole, gazing
steadfastly into it with her great eyes. In the meantime she, too, had
grown tired and thought to herself, “You might certainly shut one eye,
you will still watch with the other, and the little miscreant shall not
come out of his hole.” So she shut one eye, and with the other looked
straight at the mouse-hole. The little fellow put his head out and
peeped, and wanted to slip away, but the owl came forward immediately,
and he drew his head back again. Then the owl opened the one eye again,
and shut the other, intending to shut them in turn all through the
night.

But when she next shut the one eye, she forgot to open the other, and
as soon as both her eyes were shut she fell asleep. The little fellow
soon observed that, and slipped away.

From that day forth, the owl has never dared to show herself by
daylight, for if she does the other birds chase her and pluck her
feathers out. She only flies out by night, but hates and pursues mice
because they make such ugly holes. The little bird, too, is very
unwilling to let himself be seen, because he is afraid it will cost him
his life if he is caught. He steals about in the hedges, and when he is
quite safe, he sometimes cries, “I am King,” and for this reason, the
other birds call him in mockery, ‘King of the hedges’ (Zaunkönig). No
one, however, was so happy as the lark at not having to obey the little
King. As soon as the sun appears, she ascends high in the air and
cries, “Ah, how beautiful that is! beautiful that is! beautiful,
beautiful! ah, how beautiful that is!”

172 The Sole