The fishes had for a long time been discontented because no order
prevailed in their kingdom. None of them turned aside for the others,
but all swam to the right or the left as they fancied, or darted
between those who wanted to stay together, or got into their way; and a
strong one gave a weak one a blow with its tail, which drove it away,
or else swallowed it up without more ado. “How delightful it would be,”
said they, “if we had a king who enforced law and justice among us!”
and they met together to choose for their ruler, the one who could
cleave through the water most quickly, and give help to the weak ones.

They placed themselves in rank and file by the shore, and the pike gave
the signal with his tail, on which they all started. Like an arrow, the
pike darted away, and with him the herring, the gudgeon, the perch, the
carp, and all the rest of them. Even the sole swam with them, and hoped
to reach the winning-place. All at once, the cry was heard, “The
herring is first!” “Who is first?” screamed angrily the flat envious
sole, who had been left far behind, “who is first?” “The herring! The
herring,” was the answer. “The naked herring?” cried the jealous
creature, “the naked herring?” Since that time the sole’s mouth has
been at one side for a punishment.

173 The Bittern and the Hoopoe

“Where do you like best to feed your flocks?” said a man to an old
cow-herd. “Here, sir, where the grass is neither too rich nor too poor,
or else it is no use.” “Why not?” asked the man. “Do you hear that
melancholy cry from the meadow there?” answered the shepherd, “that is
the bittern; he was once a shepherd, and so was the hoopoe also,—I will
tell you the story. The bittern pastured his flocks on rich green
meadows where flowers grew in abundance, so his cows became wild and
unmanageable. The hoopoe drove his cattle on to high barren hills,
where the wind plays with the sand, and his cows became thin, and got
no strength. When it was evening, and the shepherds wanted to drive
their cows homewards, the bittern could not get his together again;
they were too high-spirited, and ran away from him. He called, “Come,
cows, come,” but it was of no use; they took no notice of his calling.
The hoopoe, however, could not even get his cows up on their legs, so
faint and weak had they become. “Up, up, up,” screamed he, but it was
in vain, they remained lying on the sand. That is the way when one has
no moderation. And to this day, though they have no flocks now to
watch, the bittern cries, “Come, cows, come,” and the hoopoe, “Up, up,
up.”

174 The Owl