Saint Peter who guards the gate of heaven thought the lower world had
broken out in revolt and gathered together the heavenly troops, which
are to drive back the Evil One when he and his associates storm the
abode of the blessed. As these, however, did not come, he got on his
horse and rode through the gate of heaven, down into the world below.
There he reduced the dead to subjection, bade them lie down in their
graves again, took the moon away with him, and hung it up in heaven.

176 The Duration of Life

When God had created the world and was about to fix the length of each
creature’s life, the ass came and asked, “Lord, how long shall I live?”
“Thirty years,” replied God; “does that content thee?” “Ah, Lord,”
answered the ass, “that is a long time. Think of my painful existence!
To carry heavy burdens from morning to night, to drag sacks of corn to
the mill, that others may eat bread, to be cheered and refreshed with
nothing but blows and kicks. Relieve me of a portion of this long
time.” Then God had pity on him and relieved him of eighteen years. The
ass went away comforted, and the dog appeared. “How long wouldst thou
like to live?” said God to him. “Thirty years are too many for the ass,
but thou wilt be satisfied with that.” “Lord,” answered the dog, “is
that thy will? Consider how I shall have to run, my feet will never
hold out so long, and when I have once lost my voice for barking, and
my teeth for biting, what will be left for me to do but run from one
corner to another and growl?” God saw that he was right, and released
him from twelve years of life. Then came the monkey. “Thou wilt
certainly live thirty years willingly?” said the Lord to him. “Thou
hast no need to work as the ass and the dog have to do, and wilt always
enjoy thyself.” “Ah! Lord,” he answered, “it may seem as if that were
the case, but it is quite different. When it rains porridge I have no
spoon. I am always to play merry pranks, and make faces which force
people to laugh, and if they give me an apple, and I bite into it, why
it is sour! How often sadness hides itself behind mirth! I shall never
be able to hold out for thirty years.” God was gracious and took off
ten.