There was once upon a time a miller who lived with his wife in great
contentment. They had money and land, and their prosperity increased
year by year more and more. But ill-luck comes like a thief in the
night, as their wealth had increased so did it again decrease, year by
year, and at last the miller could hardly call the mill in which he
lived, his own. He was in great distress, and when he lay down after
his day’s work, found no rest, but tossed about in his bed, full of
care. One morning he rose before daybreak and went out into the open
air, thinking that perhaps there his heart might become lighter. As he
was stepping over the mill-dam the first sunbeam was just breaking
forth, and he heard a rippling sound in the pond. He turned round and
perceived a beautiful woman, rising slowly out of the water. Her long
hair, which she was holding off her shoulders with her soft hands, fell
down on both sides, and covered her white body. He soon saw that she
was the Nix of the Mill-pond, and in his fright did not know whether he
should run away or stay where he was. But the nix made her sweet voice
heard, called him by his name, and asked him why he was so sad? The
miller was at first struck dumb, but when he heard her speak so kindly,
he took heart, and told her how he had formerly lived in wealth and
happiness, but that now he was so poor that he did not know what to do. “Be easy,” answered the nix, “I will make thee richer and happier than
thou hast ever been before, only thou must promise to give me the young
thing which has just been born in thy house.” “What else can that be,”
thought the miller, “but a young puppy or kitten?” and he promised her
what she desired. The nix descended into the water again, and he
hurried back to his mill, consoled and in good spirits. He had not yet
reached it, when the maid-servant came out of the house, and cried to
him to rejoice, for his wife had given birth to a little boy. The
miller stood as if struck by lightning; he saw very well that the
cunning nix had been aware of it, and had cheated him. Hanging his
head, he went up to his wife’s bedside and when she said, “Why dost
thou not rejoice over the fine boy?” he told her what had befallen him,
and what kind of a promise he had given to the nix. “Of what use to me
are riches and prosperity?” he added, “if I am to lose my child; but
what can I do?” Even the relations, who had come thither to wish them
joy, did not know what to say. In the meantime prosperity again
returned to the miller’s house.