One day the huntsman was chasing a roe; and when the animal turned
aside from the forest into the open country, he pursued it and at last
shot it. He did not notice that he was now in the neighbourhood of the
dangerous mill-pond, and went, after he had disembowelled the stag, to
the water, in order to wash his blood-stained hands. Scarcely, however,
had he dipped them in than the nix ascended, smilingly wound her
dripping arms around him, and drew him quickly down under the waves,
which closed over him. When it was evening, and the huntsman did not
return home, his wife became alarmed. She went out to seek him, and as
he had often told her that he had to be on his guard against the snares
of the nix, and dared not venture into the neighbourhood of the
mill-pond, she already suspected what had happened. She hastened to the
water, and when she found his hunting-pouch lying on the shore, she
could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune. Lamenting her sorrow,
and wringing her hands, she called on her beloved by name, but in vain. She hurried across to the other side of the pond, and called him anew;
she reviled the nix with harsh words, but no answer followed. The
surface of the water remained calm, only the crescent moon stared
steadily back at her. The poor woman did not leave the pond. With hasty
steps, she paced round and round it, without resting a moment,
sometimes in silence, sometimes uttering a loud cry, sometimes softly
sobbing. At last her strength came to an end, she sank down to the
ground and fell into a heavy sleep. Presently a dream took possession
of her. She was anxiously climbing upwards between great masses of
rock; thorns and briars caught her feet, the rain beat in her face, and
the wind tossed her long hair about. When she had reached the summit,
quite a different sight presented itself to her; the sky was blue, the
air soft, the ground sloped gently downwards, and on a green meadow,
gay with flowers of every colour, stood a pretty cottage. She went up
to it and opened the door; there sat an old woman with white hair, who
beckoned to her kindly. At that very moment, the poor woman awoke, day
had already dawned, and she at once resolved to act in accordance with
her dream. She laboriously climbed the mountain; everything was exactly
as she had seen it in the night. The old woman received her kindly, and
pointed out a chair on which she might sit. “Thou must have met with a
misfortune,” she said, “since thou hast sought out my lonely cottage.”
With tears, the woman related what had befallen her. “Be comforted,”
said the old woman, “I will help thee. Here is a golden comb for thee. Tarry till the full moon has risen, then go to the mill-pond, seat
thyself on the shore, and comb thy long black hair with this comb.