When
thou hast done, lay it down on the bank, and thou wilt see what will
happen.” The woman returned home, but the time till the full moon came,
passed slowly. At last the shining disc appeared in the heavens, then
she went out to the mill-pond, sat down and combed her long black hair
with the golden comb, and when she had finished, she laid it down at
the water’s edge. It was not long before there was a movement in the
depths, a wave rose, rolled to the shore, and bore the comb away with
it. In not more than the time necessary for the comb to sink to the
bottom, the surface of the water parted, and the head of the huntsman
arose. He did not speak, but looked at his wife with sorrowful glances. At the same instant, a second wave came rushing up, and covered the
man’s head. All had vanished, the mill-pond lay peaceful as before, and
nothing but the face of the full moon shone on it. Full of sorrow, the
woman went back, but again the dream showed her the cottage of the old
woman. Next morning she again set out and complained of her woes to the
wise woman. The old woman gave her a golden flute, and said, “Tarry
till the full moon comes again, then take this flute; play a beautiful
air on it, and when thou hast finished, lay it on the sand; then thou
wilt see what will happen.” The wife did as the old woman told her. No
sooner was the flute lying on the sand than there was a stirring in the
depths, and a wave rushed up and bore the flute away with it. Immediately afterwards the water parted, and not only the head of the
man, but half of his body also arose. He stretched out his arms
longingly towards her, but a second wave came up, covered him, and drew
him down again. “Alas, what does it profit me?” said the unhappy woman,
“that I should see my beloved, only to lose him again!” Despair filled
her heart anew, but the dream led her a third time to the house of the
old woman. She set out, and the wise woman gave her a golden
spinning-wheel, consoled her and said, “All is not yet fulfilled, tarry
until the time of the full moon, then take the spinning-wheel, seat
thyself on the shore, and spin the spool full, and when thou hast done
that, place the spinning-wheel near the water, and thou wilt see what
will happen.” The woman obeyed all she said exactly; as soon as the
full moon showed itself, she carried the golden spinning-wheel to the
shore, and span industriously until the flax came to an end, and the
spool was quite filled with the threads.