No sooner was the wheel
standing on the shore than there was a more violent movement than
before in the depths of the pond, and a mighty wave rushed up, and bore
the wheel away with it. Immediately the head and the whole body of the
man rose into the air, in a water-spout. He quickly sprang to the
shore, caught his wife by the hand and fled. But they had scarcely gone
a very little distance, when the whole pond rose with a frightful roar,
and streamed out over the open country. The fugitives already saw death
before their eyes, when the woman in her terror implored the help of
the old woman, and in an instant they were transformed, she into a
toad, he into a frog. The flood which had overtaken them could not
destroy them, but it tore them apart and carried them far away. When
the water had dispersed and they both touched dry land again, they
regained their human form, but neither knew where the other was; they
found themselves among strange people, who did not know their native
land. High mountains and deep valleys lay between them. In order to
keep themselves alive, they were both obliged to tend sheep. For many
long years they drove their flocks through field and forest and were
full of sorrow and longing. When spring had once more broken forth on
the earth, they both went out one day with their flocks, and as chance
would have it, they drew near each other. They met in a valley, but did
not recognize each other; yet they rejoiced that they were no longer so
lonely. Henceforth they each day drove their flocks to the same place;
they did not speak much, but they felt comforted. One evening when the
full moon was shining in the sky, and the sheep were already at rest,
the shepherd pulled the flute out of his pocket, and played on it a
beautiful but sorrowful air. When he had finished he saw that the
shepherdess was weeping bitterly. “Why art thou weeping?” he asked. “Alas,” answered she, “thus shone the full moon when I played this air
on the flute for the last time, and the head of my beloved rose out of
the water.” He looked at her, and it seemed as if a veil fell from his
eyes, and he recognized his dear wife, and when she looked at him, and
the moon shone in his face she knew him also. They embraced and kissed
each other, and no one need ask if they were happy.