The next day he set him a hard task. He was to chop two bundles of
straw for food for the horses, and then the man threatened: “In five
hours,” said he, “I shall be back again, and if the straw is not cut to
chaff by that time, I will beat thee until thou canst not move a limb.”
The farmer went with his wife, the man-servant and the girl, to the
yearly fair, and left nothing behind for the boy but a small bit of
bread. The boy seated himself on the bench, and began to work with all
his might. As he got warm over it he put his little coat off and threw
it on the straw. In his terror lest he should not get done in time he
kept constantly cutting, and in his haste, without noticing it, he
chopped his little coat as well as the straw. He became aware of the
misfortune too late; there was no repairing it. “Ah,” cried he, “now
all is over with me! The wicked man did not threaten me for nothing; if
he comes back and sees what I have done, he will kill me. Rather than
that I will take my own life.”

The boy had once heard the farmer’s wife say, “I have a pot with poison
in it under my bed.” She, however, had only said that to keep away
greedy people, for there was honey in it. The boy crept under the bed,
brought out the pot, and ate all that was in it. “I do not know,” said
he, “folks say death is bitter, but it tastes very sweet to me. It is
no wonder that the farmer’s wife has so often longed for death.” He
seated himself in a little chair, and was prepared to die. But instead
of becoming weaker he felt himself strengthened by the nourishing food.
“It cannot have been poison,” thought he, “but the farmer once said
there was a small bottle of poison for flies in the box in which he
keeps his clothes; that, no doubt, will be the true poison, and bring
death to me.” It was, however, no poison for flies, but Hungarian wine.
The boy got out the bottle, and emptied it. “This death tastes sweet
too,” said he, but shortly after when the wine began to mount into his
brain and stupefy him, he thought his end was drawing near. “I feel
that I must die,” said he, “I will go away to the churchyard, and seek
a grave.” He staggered out, reached the churchyard, and laid himself in
a newly dug grave. He lost his senses more and more. In the
neighbourhood was an inn where a wedding was being kept; when he heard
the music, he fancied he was already in Paradise, until at length he
lost all consciousness. The poor boy never awoke again; the heat of the
strong wine and the cold night-dew deprived him of life, and he
remained in the grave in which he had laid himself.