On the third morning she said to the girl, “Thou must build me a castle
on the plain there, and it must be ready by the evening.” The maiden
was dismayed, and said, “How can I complete such a great work?” “I will
endure no opposition,” screamed the step-mother. “If thou canst empty a
pond with a spoon that is full of holes, thou canst build a castle too. I will take possession of it this very day, and if anything is wanting,
even if it be the most trifling thing in the kitchen or cellar, thou
knowest what lies before thee!” She drove the girl out, and when she
entered the valley, the rocks were there, piled up one above the other,
and all her strength would not have enabled her even to move the very
smallest of them. She sat down and wept, and still she hoped the old
woman would help her. The old woman was not long in coming; she
comforted her and said, “Lie down there in the shade and sleep, and I
will soon build the castle for thee. If it would be a pleasure to thee,
thou canst live in it thyself.” When the maiden had gone away, the old
woman touched the gray rocks. They began to rise, and immediately moved
together as if giants had built the walls; and on these the building
arose, and it seemed as if countless hands were working invisibly, and
placing one stone upon another. There was a dull heavy noise from the
ground; pillars arose of their own accord on high, and placed
themselves in order near each other. The tiles laid themselves in order
on the roof, and when noon-day came, the great weather-cock was already
turning itself on the summit of the tower, like a golden figure of the
Virgin with fluttering garments. The inside of the castle was being
finished while evening was drawing near. How the old woman managed it,
I know not; but the walls of the rooms were hung with silk and velvet,
embroidered chairs were there, and richly ornamented arm-chairs by
marble tables; crystal chandeliers hung down from the ceilings, and
mirrored themselves in the smooth pavement; green parrots were there in
gilt cages, and so were strange birds which sang most beautifully, and
there was on all sides as much magnificence as if a king were going to
live there. The sun was just setting when the girl awoke, and the
brightness of a thousand lights flashed in her face. She hurried to the
castle, and entered by the open door. The steps were spread with red
cloth, and the golden balustrade beset with flowering trees. When she
saw the splendour of the apartment, she stood as if turned to stone. Who knows how long she might have stood there if she had not remembered
the step-mother?