And now the magnificent castle belonged to the girl alone. She at first
did not know how to reconcile herself to her good fortune. Beautiful
dresses were hanging in the wardrobes, the chests were filled with gold
or silver, or with pearls and jewels, and she never felt a desire that
she was not able to gratify. And soon the fame of the beauty and riches
of the maiden went over all the world. Wooers presented themselves
daily, but none pleased her. At length the son of the King came and he
knew how to touch her heart, and she betrothed herself to him. In the
garden of the castle was a lime-tree, under which they were one day
sitting together, when he said to her, “I will go home and obtain my
father’s consent to our marriage. I entreat thee to wait for me here
under this lime-tree, I shall be back with thee in a few hours.” The
maiden kissed him on his left cheek, and said, “Keep true to me, and
never let any one else kiss thee on this cheek. I will wait here under
the lime-tree until thou returnest.”

The maid stayed beneath the lime-tree until sunset, but he did not
return. She sat three days from morning till evening, waiting for him,
but in vain. As he still was not there by the fourth day, she said,
“Some accident has assuredly befallen him. I will go out and seek him,
and will not come back until I have found him.” She packed up three of
her most beautiful dresses, one embroidered with bright stars, the
second with silver moons, the third with golden suns, tied up a handful
of jewels in her handkerchief, and set out. She inquired everywhere for
her betrothed, but no one had seen him; no one knew anything about him.
Far and wide did she wander through the world, but she found him not.
At last she hired herself to a farmer as a cow-herd, and buried her
dresses and jewels beneath a stone.

And now she lived as a herdswoman, guarded her herd, and was very sad
and full of longing for her beloved one; she had a little calf which
she taught to know her, and fed it out of her own hand, and when she
said,

“Little calf, little calf, kneel by my side,
And do not forget thy shepherd-maid,
As the prince forgot his betrothed bride,
Who waited for him ’neath the lime-tree’s shade.”

the little calf knelt down, and she stroked it.