And when she had lived for a couple of years alone and full of grief, a
report was spread over all the land that the King’s daughter was about
to celebrate her marriage. The road to the town passed through the
village where the maiden was living, and it came to pass that once when
the maiden was driving out her herd, her bridegroom travelled by. He
was sitting proudly on his horse, and never looked round, but when she
saw him she recognized her beloved, and it was just as if a sharp knife
had pierced her heart. “Alas!” said she, “I believed him true to me,
but he has forgotten me.”

Next day he again came along the road. When he was near her she said to
the little calf,

“Little calf, little calf, kneel by my side,
And do not forget thy shepherd-maid,
As the prince forgot his betrothed bride,
Who waited for him ’neath the lime-tree’s shade.”

When he was aware of the voice, he looked down and reined in his horse.
He looked into the herd’s face, and then put his hands before his eyes
as if he were trying to remember something, but he soon rode onwards
and was out of sight. “Alas!” said she, “he no longer knows me,” and
her grief was ever greater.

Soon after this a great festival three days long was to be held at the
King’s court, and the whole country was invited to it.

“Now will I try my last chance,” thought the maiden, and when evening
came she went to the stone under which she had buried her treasures.
She took out the dress with the golden suns, put it on, and adorned
herself with the jewels. She let down her hair, which she had concealed
under a handkerchief, and it fell down in long curls about her, and
thus she went into the town, and in the darkness was observed by no
one. When she entered the brightly-lighted hall, every one started back
in amazement, but no one knew who she was. The King’s son went to meet
her, but he did not recognize her. He led her out to dance, and was so
enchanted with her beauty, that he thought no more of the other bride.
When the feast was over, she vanished in the crowd, and hastened before
daybreak to the village, where she once more put on her herd’s dress.

Next evening she took out the dress with the silver moons, and put a
half-moon made of precious stones in her hair. When she appeared at the
festival, all eyes were turned upon her, but the King’s son hastened to
meet her, and filled with love for her, danced with her alone, and no
longer so much as glanced at anyone else. Before she went away she was
forced to promise him to come again to the festival on the last
evening.