About this time, the son of the King was travelling about the country
looking for a bride. He was not to choose a poor one, and did not want
to have a rich one. So he said, “She shall be my wife who is the
poorest, and at the same time the richest.” When he came to the village
where the maiden dwelt, he inquired, as he did wherever he went, who
was the richest and also the poorest girl in the place? They first
named the richest; the poorest, they said, was the girl who lived in
the small house quite at the end of the village. The rich girl was
sitting in all her splendour before the door of her house, and when the
prince approached her, she got up, went to meet him, and made him a low
curtsey. He looked at her, said nothing, and rode on. When he came to
the house of the poor girl, she was not standing at the door, but
sitting in her little room. He stopped his horse, and saw through the
window, on which the bright sun was shining, the girl sitting at her
spinning-wheel, busily spinning. She looked up, and when she saw that
the prince was looking in, she blushed all over her face, let her eyes
fall, and went on spinning. I do not know whether, just at that moment,
the thread was quite even; but she went on spinning until the King’s
son had ridden away again. Then she went to the window, opened it, and
said, “It is so warm in this room!” but she still looked after him as
long as she could distinguish the white feathers in his hat. Then she
sat down to work again in her own room and went on with her spinning,
and a saying which the old woman had often repeated when she was
sitting at her work, came into her mind, and she sang these words to
herself,—

“Spindle, my spindle, haste, haste thee away,
And here to my house bring the wooer, I pray.”

And what do you think happened? The spindle sprang out of her hand in
an instant, and out of the door, and when, in her astonishment, she got
up and looked after it, she saw that it was dancing out merrily into
the open country, and drawing a shining golden thread after it. Before
long, it had entirely vanished from her sight. As she had now no
spindle, the girl took the weaver’s shuttle in her hand, sat down to
her loom, and began to weave.

The spindle, however, danced continually onwards, and just as the
thread came to an end, reached the prince. “What do I see?” he cried;
“the spindle certainly wants to show me the way!” turned his horse
about, and rode back with the golden thread. The girl was, however,
sitting at her work singing,

“Shuttle, my shuttle, weave well this day,
And guide the wooer to me, I pray.”