Next day he meditated for a long time how he should hide himself, but
all in vain. Then he seized his gun and went out hunting. He saw a
raven, took a good aim at him, and was just going to fire, when the
bird cried, “Don’t shoot; I will make it worth thy while not.” He put
his gun down, went on, and came to a lake where he surprised a large
fish which had come up from the depths below to the surface of the
water. When he had aimed at it, the fish cried, “Don’t shoot, and I
will make it worth thy while.” He allowed it to dive down again, went
onwards, and met a fox which was lame. He fired and missed it, and the
fox cried, “You had much better come here and draw the thorn out of my
foot for me.” He did this; but then he wanted to kill the fox and skin
it, the fox said, “Stop, and I will make it worth thy while.” The youth
let him go, and then as it was evening, returned home.

Next day he was to hide himself; but howsoever much he puzzled his
brains over it, he did not know where. He went into the forest to the
raven and said, “I let thee live on, so now tell me where I am to hide
myself, so that the King’s daughter shall not see me.” The raven hung
his head and thought it over for a longtime. At length he croaked, “I
have it.” He fetched an egg out of his nest, cut it into two parts, and
shut the youth inside it; then made it whole again, and seated himself
on it. When the King’s daughter went to the first window she could not
discover him, nor could she from the others, and she began to be
uneasy, but from the eleventh she saw him. She ordered the raven to be
shot, and the egg to be brought and broken, and the youth was forced to
come out. She said, “For once thou art excused, but if thou dost not do
better than this, thou art lost!”

Next day he went to the lake, called the fish to him and said, “I
suffered thee to live, now tell me where to hide myself so that the
King’s daughter may not see me.” The fish thought for a while, and at
last cried, “I have it! I will shut thee up in my stomach.” He
swallowed him, and went down to the bottom of the lake. The King’s
daughter looked through her windows, and even from the eleventh did not
see him, and was alarmed; but at length from the twelfth she saw him.
She ordered the fish to be caught and killed, and then the youth
appeared. Every one can imagine what a state of mind he was in. She
said, “Twice thou art forgiven, but be sure that thy head will be set
on the hundredth post.”