On the last day, he went with a heavy heart into the country, and met
the fox. “Thou knowest how to find all kinds of hiding-places,” said
he; “I let thee live, now advise me where I shall hide myself so that
the King’s daughter shall not discover me.” “That’s a hard task,”
answered the fox, looking very thoughtful. At length he cried, “I have
it!” and went with him to a spring, dipped himself in it, and came out
as a stall-keeper in the market, and dealer in animals. The youth had
to dip himself in the water also, and was changed into a small
sea-hare. The merchant went into the town, and showed the pretty little
animal, and many persons gathered together to see it. At length the
King’s daughter came likewise, and as she liked it very much, she
bought it, and gave the merchant a good deal of money for it. Before he
gave it over to her, he said to it, “When the King’s daughter goes to
the window, creep quickly under the braids of her hair.” And now the
time arrived when she was to search for him. She went to one window
after another in turn, from the first to the eleventh, and did not see
him. When she did not see him from the twelfth either, she was full of
anxiety and anger, and shut it down with such violence that the glass
in every window shivered into a thousand pieces, and the whole castle
shook.

She went back and felt the sea-hare beneath the braids of her hair.
Then she seized it, and threw it on the ground exclaiming, “Away with
thee, get out of my sight!” It ran to the merchant, and both of them
hurried to the spring, wherein they plunged, and received back their
true forms. The youth thanked the fox, and said, “The raven and the
fish are idiots compared with thee; thou knowest the right tune to
play, there is no denying that!”

The youth went straight to the palace. The princess was already
expecting him, and accommodated herself to her destiny. The wedding was
solemnized, and now he was king, and lord of all the kingdom. He never
told her where he had concealed himself for the third time, and who had
helped him, so she believed that he had done everything by his own
skill, and she had a great respect for him, for she thought to herself,
“He is able to do more than I.”

192 The Master-Thief