The old man took a young tree, put it in a hole, drove in a post beside
it, and when he had shovelled in some earth and had trampled it firmly
down, he tied the stem of the tree above, below, and in the middle,
fast to the post by a rope of straw. “But tell me,” said the stranger,
“why you don’t tie that crooked knotted tree, which is lying in the
corner there, bent down almost to the ground, to a post also that it
may grow straight, as well as these?” The old man smiled and said,
“Sir, you speak according to your knowledge, it is easy to see that you
are not familiar with gardening. That tree there is old, and
mis-shapen, no one can make it straight now. Trees must be trained
while they are young.” “That is how it was with your son,” said the
stranger, “if you had trained him while he was still young, he would
not have run away; now he too must have grown hard and mis-shapen.”
“Truly it is a long time since he went away,” replied the old man, “he
must have changed.” “Would you know him again if he were to come to
you?” asked the stranger. “Hardly by his face,” replied the peasant,
“but he has a mark about him, a birth-mark on his shoulder, that looks
like a bean.” When he had said that the stranger pulled off his coat,
bared his shoulder, and showed the peasant the bean. “Good God!” cried
the old man, “Thou art really my son!” and love for his child stirred
in his heart. “But,” he added, “how canst thou be my son, thou hast
become a great lord and livest in wealth and luxury? How hast thou
contrived to do that?” “Ah, father,” answered the son, “the young tree
was bound to no post and has grown crooked, now it is too old, it will
never be straight again. How have I got all that? I have become a
thief, but do not be alarmed, I am a master-thief. For me there are
neither locks nor bolts, whatsoever I desire is mine. Do not imagine
that I steal like a common thief, I only take some of the superfluity
of the rich. Poor people are safe, I would rather give to them than
take anything from them. It is the same with anything which I can have
without trouble, cunning and dexterity I never touch it.” “Alas, my
son,” said the father, “it still does not please me, a thief is still a
thief, I tell thee it will end badly.” He took him to his mother, and
when she heard that was her son, she wept for joy, but when he told her
that he had become a master-thief, two streams flowed down over her
face.