The old woman came, “There thou seest how easy the work was!” said she;
“but for whom hast thou left that bough which is lying there still?”

“For thee, thou witch,” he replied, and gave her a blow with it. But
she pretended not to feel it, laughed scornfully, and said, “Early
to-morrow morning thou shalt arrange all the wood in one heap, set fire
to it, and burn it.” He rose at break of day, and began to pick up the
wood, but how can a single man get a whole forest together? The work
made no progress. The maiden, however, did not desert him in his need.
She brought him his food at noon, and when he had eaten, he laid his
head on her lap, and went to sleep. When he awoke, the entire pile of
wood was burning in one enormous flame, which stretched its tongues out
into the sky. “Listen to me,” said the maiden, “when the witch comes,
she will give thee all kinds of orders; do whatever she asks thee
without fear, and then she will not be able to get the better of thee,
but if thou art afraid, the fire will lay hold of thee, and consume
thee. At last when thou hast done everything, seize her with both thy
hands, and throw her into the midst of the fire.” The maiden departed,
and the old woman came sneaking up to him. “Oh, I am cold,” said she,
“but that is a fire that burns; it warms my old bones for me, and does
me good! But there is a log lying there which won’t burn, bring it out
for me. When thou hast done that, thou art free, and mayst go where
thou likest, come; go in with a good will.”

The drummer did not reflect long; he sprang into the midst of the
flames, but they did not hurt him, and could not even singe a hair of
his head. He carried the log out, and laid it down. Hardly, however,
had the wood touched the earth than it was transformed, and the
well that she was the King’s daughter. But the old woman laughed
venomously, and said, “Thou thinkest thou hast her safe, but thou hast
not got her yet!” Just as she was about to fall on the maiden and take
her away, the youth seized the old woman with both his hands, raised
her up on high, and threw her into the jaws of the fire, which closed
over her as if it were delighted that an old witch was to be burnt.