The poor King’s daughter had stood for a long time without the town
waiting for the return of the young man. When evening came, she said,
“He must certainly have kissed his parents on the right cheek, and has
forgotten me.” Her heart was full of sorrow, she wished herself into a
solitary little hut in a forest, and would not return to her father’s
court. Every evening she went into the town and passed the young man’s
house; he often saw her, but he no longer knew her. At length she heard
the people saying, “The wedding will take place to-morrow.” Then she
said, “I will try if I can win his heart back.”

On the first day of the wedding ceremonies, she turned her
wishing-ring, and said, “A dress as bright as the sun.” Instantly the
dress lay before her, and it was as bright as if it had been woven of
real sunbeams. When all the guests were assembled, she entered the
hall. Every one was amazed at the beautiful dress, and the bride most
of all, and as pretty dresses were the things she had most delight in,
she went to the stranger and asked if she would sell it to her. “Not
for money,” she answered, “but if I may pass the first night outside
the door of the room where your betrothed sleeps, I will give it up to
you.” The bride could not overcome her desire and consented, but she
mixed a sleeping-draught with the wine her betrothed took at night,
which made him fall into a deep sleep, When all had become quiet, the
King’s daughter crouched down by the door of the bedroom, opened it
just a little, and cried,

“Drummer, drummer, I pray thee hear!
Hast thou forgotten thou heldest me dear?
That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour?
That I rescued thy life from the witch’s power?
Didst thou not plight thy troth to me?
Drummer, drummer, hearken to me!”

But it was all in vain, the drummer did not awake, and when morning
dawned, the King’s daughter was forced to go back again as she came. On
the second evening she turned her wishing-ring and said, “A dress as
silvery as the moon.” When she appeared at the feast in the dress which
was as soft as moonbeams, it again excited the desire of the bride, and
the King’s daughter gave it to her for permission to pass the second
night also, outside the door of the bedroom. Then in the stillness of
the night, she cried,

“Drummer, drummer, I pray thee hear!
Hast thou forgotten thy heldest me dear?
That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour?
That I rescued thy life from the witch’s power?
Didst thou not plight thy troth to me?
Drummer, drummer, hearken to me!”