But the drummer, who was stupefied with the sleeping-draught, could not
be aroused. Sadly next morning she went back to her hut in the forest.
But the people in the house had heard the lamentation of the
stranger-maiden, and told the bridegroom about it. They told him also
that it was impossible that he could hear anything of it, because the
maiden he was going to marry had poured a sleeping-draught into his
wine.

On the third evening, the King’s daughter turned her wishing-ring, and
said, “A dress glittering like the stars.” When she showed herself
therein at the feast, the bride was quite beside herself with the
splendour of the dress, which far surpassed the others, and she said,
“I must, and will have it.” The maiden gave it as she had given the
others for permission to spend the night outside the bridegroom’s door.
The bridegroom, however, did not drink the wine which was handed to him
before he went to bed, but poured it behind the bed, and when
everything was quiet, he heard a sweet voice which called to him,

“Drummer, drummer, I pray thee hear!
Hast thou forgotten thou held me dear?
That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour?
That I rescued thy life from the witch’s power?
Didst thou not plight thy troth to me?
Drummer, drummer, hearken to me!”

Suddenly, his memory returned to him. “Ah,” cried he, “how can I have
acted so unfaithfully; but the kiss which in the joy of my heart I gave
my parents, on the right cheek, that is to blame for it all, that is
what stupefied me!” He sprang up, took the King’s daughter by the hand,
and led her to his parents’ bed. “This is my true bride,” said he; “if
I marry the other, I shall do a great wrong.” The parents, when they
heard how everything had happened, gave their consent. Then the lights
in the hall were lighted again, drums and trumpets were brought,
friends and relations were invited to come, and the real wedding was
solemnized with great rejoicing. The first bride received the beautiful
dresses as a compensation, and declared herself satisfied.

194 The Ear of Corn

In former times, when God himself still walked the earth, the
fruitfulness of the soil was much greater than it is now; then the ears
of corn did not bear fifty or sixty, but four or five hundred-fold.
Then the corn grew from the bottom to the very top o f the stalk, and
according to the length of the stalk was the length of the ear. Men
however are so made, that when they are too well off they no longer
value the blessings which come from God, but grow indifferent and
careless. One day a woman was passing by a corn-field when her little
child, who was running beside her, fell into a puddle, and dirtied her
frock. On this the mother tore up a handful of the beautiful ears of
corn, and cleaned the frock with them.