Then there was another knock, but the knock was at the door of his
room. It was his neighbour, a poor man who had a number of children
whom he could no longer satisfy with food. “I know,” thought the poor
man, “that my neighbour is rich, but he is as hard as he is rich. I
don’t believe he will help me, but my children are crying for bread, so
I will venture it.” He said to the rich man, “You do not readily give
away anything that is yours, but I stand here like one who feels the
water rising above his head. My children are starving, lend me four
measures* of corn.” The rich man looked at him long, and then the first
sunbeam of mercy began to melt away a drop of the ice of greediness. “I
will not lend thee four measures,” he answered, “but I will make thee a
present of eight, but thou must fulfil one condition.” “What am I to
do?” said the poor man. “When I am dead, thou shalt watch for three
nights by my grave.” The peasant was disturbed in his mind at this
request, but in the need in which he was, he would have consented to
anything; he accepted, therefore, and carried the corn home with him.

It seemed as if the rich man had foreseen what was about to happen, for
when three days were gone by, he suddenly dropped down dead. No one
knew exactly how it came to pass, but no one grieved for him. When he
was buried, the poor man remembered his promise; he would willingly
were not the case, where I have once given my promise I must keep it.”
At nightfall he went into the churchyard, and seated himself on the
grave-mound. Everything was quiet, only the moon appeared above the
grave, and frequently an owl flew past and uttered her melancholy cry.
When the sun rose, the poor man betook himself in safety to his home,
and in the same manner the second night passed quietly by. On the
evening of the third day he felt a strange uneasiness, it seemed to him
that something was about to happen. When he went out he saw, by the
churchyard-wall, a man whom he had never seen before. He was no longer
young, had scars on his face, and his eyes looked sharply and eagerly
around. He was entirely covered with an old cloak, and nothing was
visible but his great riding-boots. “What are you looking for here?”
the peasant asked. “Are you not afraid of the lonely churchyard?”