“I am looking for nothing,” he answered, “and I am afraid of nothing! I
am like the youngster who went forth to learn how to shiver, and had
his labour for his pains, but got the King’s daughter to wife and great
wealth with her, only I have remained poor. I am nothing but a paid-off
soldier, and I mean to pass the night here, because I have no other
shelter.” “If you are without fear,” said the peasant, “stay with me,
and help me to watch that grave there.”

“To keep watch is a soldier’s business,” he replied, “whatever we fall
in with here, whether it be good or bad, we will share it between us.”
The peasant agreed to this, and they seated themselves on the grave
together.

All was quiet until midnight, when suddenly a shrill whistling was
heard in the air, and the two watchers perceived the Evil One standing
bodily before them. “Be off, you ragamuffins!” cried he to them, “the
man who lies in that grave belongs to me; I want to take him, and if
you don’t go away I will wring your necks!” “Sir with the red feather,”
said the soldier, “you are not my captain, I have no need to obey you,
and I have not yet learned how to fear. Go away, we shall stay sitting
here.”

The Devil thought to himself, “Money is the best thing with which to
get hold of these two vagabonds.” So he began to play a softer tune,
and asked quite kindly, if they would not accept a bag of money, and go
home with it? “That is worth listening to,” answered the soldier, “but
one bag of gold won’t serve us, if you will give as much as will go
into one of my boots, we will quit the field for you and go away.”

“I have not so much as that about me,” said the Devil, “but I will
fetch it. In the neighbouring town lives a money-changer who is a good
friend of mine, and will readily advance it to me.” When the Devil had
vanished the soldier took his left boot off, and said, “We will soon
pull the charcoal-burner’s nose for him, just give me your knife,
comrade.” He cut the sole off the boot, and put it in the high grass
near the grave on the edge of a hole that was half over-grown. “That
will do,” said he; “now the chimney-sweep may come.”

They both sat down and waited, and it was not long before the Devil
returned with a small bag of gold in his hand. “Just pour it in,” said
the soldier, raising up the boot a little, “but that won’t be enough.”