The son of the King in whose kingdom they were, was, however, the very
man who had been betrothed to Maid Maleen. His father had chosen
another bride for him, whose face was as ugly as her heart was wicked.
The wedding was fixed, and the maiden had already arrived; but because
of her great ugliness, however, she shut herself in her room, and
allowed no one to see her, and Maid Maleen had to take her her meals
from the kitchen. When the day came for the bride and the bridegroom to
go to church, she was ashamed of her ugliness, and afraid that if she
showed herself in the streets, she would be mocked and laughed at by
the people. Then said she to Maid Maleen, “A great piece of luck has
befallen thee. I have sprained my foot, and cannot well walk through
the streets; thou shalt put on my wedding-clothes and take my place; a
greater honour than that thou canst not have!” Maid Maleen, however,
refused it, and said, “I wish for no honour which is not suitable for
me.” It was in vain, too, that the bride offered her gold. At last she
said angrily, “If thou dost not obey me, it shall cost thee thy life. I
have but to speak the word, and thy head will lie at thy feet.” Then
she was forced to obey, and put on the bride’s magnificent clothes and
all her jewels. When she entered the royal hall, every one was amazed
at her great beauty, and the King said to his son, “This is the bride
whom I have chosen for thee, and whom thou must lead to church.” The
bridegroom was astonished, and thought, “She is like my Maid Maleen,
and I should believe that it was she herself, but she has long been
shut up in the tower, or dead.” He took her by the hand and led her to
church. On the way was a nettle-plant, and she said,

“Oh, nettle-plant,
Little nettle-plant,
What dost thou here alone?
I have known the time
When I ate thee unboiled,
When I ate thee unroasted.”

“What art thou saying?” asked the King’s son. “Nothing,” she replied,
“I was only thinking of Maid Maleen.” He was surprised that she knew
about her, but kept silence. When they came to the foot-plank into the
churchyard, she said,

“Foot-bridge, do not break,
I am not the true bride.”

“What art thou saying there?” asked the King’s son. “Nothing,” she
replied, “I was only thinking of Maid Maleen.” “Dost thou know Maid
Maleen?” “No,” she answered, “how should I know her; I have only heard
of her.” When they came to the church-door, she said once more,

“Church-door, break not,
I am not the true bride.”