“What art thou saying there?” asked he. “Ah,” she answered, “I was only
thinking of Maid Maleen.” Then he took out a precious chain, put it
round her neck, and fastened the clasp. Thereupon they entered the
church, and the priest joined their hands together before the altar,
and married them. He led her home, but she did not speak a single word
the whole way. When they got back to the royal palace, she hurried into
the bride’s chamber, put off the magnificent clothes and the jewels,
dressed herself in her gray gown, and kept nothing but the jewel on her
neck, which she had received from the bridegroom.

When the night came, and the bride was to be led into the prince’s
apartment, she let her veil fall over her face, that he might not
observe the deception. As soon as every one had gone away, he said to
her, “What didst thou say to the nettle-plant which was growing by the
wayside?”

“To which nettle-plant?” asked she; “I don’t talk to nettle-plants.”
“If thou didst not do it, then thou art not the true bride,” said he.
So she bethought herself, and said,

“I must go out unto my maid,
Who keeps my thoughts for me.”

She went out and sought Maid Maleen. “Girl, what hast thou been saying
to the nettle?” “I said nothing but,

“Oh, nettle-plant,
Little nettle-plant,
What dost thou here alone?
I have known the time
When I ate thee unboiled,
When I ate thee unroasted.”

The bride ran back into the chamber, and said, “I know now what I said
to the nettle,” and she repeated the words which she had just heard.
“But what didst thou say to the foot-bridge when we went over it?”
asked the King’s son. “To the foot-bridge?” she answered. “I don’t talk
to foot-bridges.” “Then thou art not the true bride.”

She again said,

“I must go out unto my maid,
Who keeps my thoughts for me,”

And ran out and found Maid Maleen, “Girl, what didst thou say to the
foot-bridge?”

“I said nothing but,

“Foot-bridge, do not break,
I am not the true bride.”

“That costs thee thy life!” cried the bride, but she hurried into the
room, and said, “I know now what I said to the foot-bridge,” and she
repeated the words. “But what didst thou say to the church-door?” “To
the church-door?” she replied; “I don’t talk to church-doors.” “Then
thou art not the true bride.”

She went out and found Maid Maleen, and said, “Girl, what didst thou
say to the church-door?”

“I said nothing but,

“Church-door, break not,
I am not the true bride.”