A soldier who is afraid of nothing, troubles himself about nothing. One
of this kind had received his discharge, and as he had learnt no trade
and could earn nothing, he travelled about and begged alms of kind
people. He had an old waterproof on his back, and a pair of
riding-boots of buffalo-leather which were still left to him. One day
he was walking he knew not where, straight out into the open country,
and at length came to a forest. He did not know where he was, but saw
sitting on the trunk of a tree, which had been cut down, a man who was
well dressed and wore a green shooting-coat. The soldier shook hands
with him, sat down on the grass by his side, and stretched out his
legs. “I see thou hast good boots on, which are well blacked,” said he
to the huntsman; “but if thou hadst to travel about as I have, they
would not last long. Look at mine, they are of buffalo-leather, and
have been worn for a long time, but in them I can go through thick and
thin.” After a while the soldier got up and said, “I can stay no
longer, hunger drives me onwards; but, Brother Bright-boots, where does
this road lead to?” “I don’t know that myself,” answered the huntsman,
“I have lost my way in the forest.” “Then thou art in the same plight
as I,” said the soldier; “birds of a feather flock together, let us
remain together, and seek our way.” The huntsman smiled a little, and
they walked on further and further, until night fell. “We do not get
out of the forest,” said the soldier, “but there in the distance I see
a light shining, which will help us to something to eat.” They found a
stone house, knocked at the door, and an old woman opened it. “We are
looking for quarters for the night,” said the soldier, “and some lining
for our stomachs, for mine is as empty as an old knapsack.” “You cannot
stay here,” answered the old woman; “this is a robber’s house, and you
would do wisely to get away before they come home, or you will be
lost.” “It won’t be so bad as that,” answered the soldier, “I have not
had a mouthful for two days, and whether I am murdered here or die of
hunger in the forest is all the same to me. I shall go in.” The
huntsman would not follow, but the soldier drew him in with him by the
sleeve. “Come, my dear brother, we shall not come to an end so quickly
as that!” The old woman had pity on them and said, “Creep in here
behind the stove, and if they leave anything, I will give it to you on
the sly when they are asleep.” Scarcely were they in the corner before
twelve robbers came bursting in, seated themselves at the table which
was already laid, and vehemently demanded some food.