The old woman
brought in some great dishes of roast meat, and the robbers enjoyed
that thoroughly. When the smell of the food ascended the nostrils of
the soldier, he said to the huntsman, “I cannot hold out any longer, I
shall seat myself at the table, and eat with them.” “Thou wilt bring us
to destruction,” said the huntsman, and held him back by the arm. But
the soldier began to cough loudly. When the robbers heard that, they
threw away their knives and forks, leapt up, and discovered the two who
were behind the stove. “Aha, gentlemen, are you in the corner?” cried
they, “What are you doing here? Have you been sent as spies? Wait a
while, and you shall learn how to fly on a dry bough.” “But do be
civil,” said the soldier, “I am hungry, give me something to eat, and
then you can do what you like with me.” The robbers were astonished,
and the captain said, “I see that thou hast no fear; well, thou shalt
have some food, but after that thou must die.” “We shall see,” said the
soldier, and seated himself at the table, and began to cut away
valiantly at the roast meat. “Brother Brightboots, come and eat,” cried
he to the huntsman; “thou must be as hungry as I am, and cannot have
better roast meat at home,” but the huntsman would not eat. The robbers
looked at the soldier in astonishment, and said, “The rascal uses no
ceremony.” After a while he said, “I have had enough food, now get me
something good to drink.” The captain was in the mood to humour him in
this also, and called to the old woman, “Bring a bottle out of the
cellar, and mind it be of the best.” The soldier drew the cork out with
a loud noise, and then went with the bottle to the huntsman and said,
“Pay attention, brother, and thou shalt see something that will
surprise thee; I am now going to drink the health of the whole clan.”
Then he brandished the bottle over the heads of the robbers, and cried,
“Long life to you all, but with your mouths open and your right hands
lifted up,” and then he drank a hearty draught. Scarcely were the words
said than they all sat motionless as if made of stone, and their mouths
were open and their right hands stretched up in the air. The huntsman
said to the soldier, “I see that thou art acquainted with tricks of
another kind, but now come and let us go home.” “Oho, my dear brother,
but that would be marching away far too soon; we have conquered the
enemy, and must first take the booty. Those men there are sitting fast,
and are opening their mouths with astonishment, but they will not be
allowed to move until I permit them.