Come, eat and drink.” The old
woman had to bring another bottle of the best wine, and the soldier
would not stir until he had eaten enough to last for three days. At
last when day came, he said, “Now it is time to strike our tents, and
that our march may be a short one, the old woman shall show us the
nearest way to the town.” When they had arrived there, he went to his
old comrades, and said, “Out in the forest I have found a nest full of
gallows’ birds, come with me and we will take it.” The soldier led
them, and said to the huntsman, “Thou must go back again with me to see
how they shake when we seize them by the feet.” He placed the men round
about the robbers, and then he took the bottle, drank a mouthful,
brandished it above them, and cried, “Live again.” Instantly they all
regained the power of movement, but were thrown down and bound hand and
foot with cords. Then the soldier ordered them to be thrown into a cart
as if they had been so many sacks, and said, “Now drive them straight
to prison.” The huntsman, however, took one of the men aside and gave
him another commission besides. “Brother Bright-boots,” said the
soldier, “we have safely routed the enemy and been well fed, now we
will quietly walk behind them as if we were stragglers!” When they
approached the town, the soldier saw a crowd of people pouring through
the gate of the town who were raising loud cries of joy, and waving
green boughs in the air. Then he saw that the entire body-guard was
coming up. “What can this mean?” said he to the huntsman. “Dost thou
not know?” he replied, “that the King has for a long time been absent
from his kingdom, and that to-day he is returning, and every one is
going to meet him.” “But where is the King?” said the soldier, “I do
not see him.” “Here he is,” answered the huntsman, “I am the King, and
have announced my arrival.” Then he opened his hunting-coat, and his
royal garments were visible. The soldier was alarmed, and fell on his
knees and begged him to forgive him for having in his ignorance treated
him as an equal, and spoken to him by such a name. But the King shook
hands with him, and said, “Thou art a brave soldier, and hast saved my
life. Thou shalt never again be in want, I will take care of thee. And
if ever thou wouldst like to eat a piece of roast meat, as good as that
in the robber’s house, come to the royal kitchen. But if thou wouldst
drink a health, thou must first ask my permission.”