St. Joseph gave her the roots. The girl scraped them clean, then she
brought a piece of pancake and the bread that her mother had given her
to take with her; mixed all together in a pan, and cooked herself a
thick soup. When it was ready, St. Joseph said, “I am so hungry; give
me some of thy food.” The child was quite willing, and gave him more
than she kept for herself, but God’s blessing was with her, so that she
was satisfied. When they had eaten, St. Joseph said, “Now we will go to
bed; I have, however, only one bed, lay thyself in it. I will lie on
the ground on the straw.” “No,” answered she, “stay in your own bed,
the straw is soft enough for me.” St. Joseph, however, took the child
in his arms, and carried her into the little bed, and there she said
her prayers, and fell asleep. Next morning when she awoke, she wanted
to say good morning to St. Joseph, but she did not see him. Then she
got up and looked for him, but could not find him anywhere; at last she
perceived, behind the door, a bag with money so heavy that she could
just carry it, and on it was written that it was for the child who had
slept there that night. On this she took the bag, bounded away with it,
and got safely to her mother, and as she gave her mother all the money,
she could not help being satisfied with her.

The next day, the second child also took a fancy to go into the forest.
Her mother gave her a much larger piece of pancake and bread. It
happened with her just as with the first child. In the evening she came
to St. Joseph’s little hut, who gave her roots for a thick soup. When
it was ready, he likewise said to her, “I am so hungry, give me some of
thy food.” Then the child said, “You may have your share.” Afterwards,
when St. Joseph offered her his bed and wanted to lie on the straw, she
replied, “No, lie down in the bed, there is plenty of room for both of
us.” St. Joseph took her in his arms and put her in the bed, and laid
himself on the straw.

In the morning when the child awoke and looked for St. Joseph, he had
vanished, but behind the door she found a little sack of money that was
about as long as a hand, and on it was written that it was for the
child who had slept there last night. So she took the little bag and
ran home with it, and took it to her mother, but she secretly kept two
pieces for herself.