Once when he had gone from door to door from morning till night, and no
one had given him anything, and no one would shelter him for the night,
he went forth into a forest, and at last found a cave which someone had
made, and an old woman was sitting in it. Then said he, “Good woman,
keep me with you in your house for this night;” but she said, “No, I
dare not, even if I wished, I have three sons who are wicked and wild,
if they come home from their robbing expedition, and find you, they
would kill us both.” The hermit said, “Let me stay, they will do no
injury either to you or to me.” and the woman was compassionate, and
let herself be persuaded. Then the man lay down beneath the stairs, and
put the bit of wood under his head. When the old woman saw him do that,
she asked the reason of it, on which he told her that he carried the
bit of wood about with him for a penance, and used it at night for a
pillow, and that he had offended the Lord, because, when he had seen a
poor sinner on the way to the gallows, he had said he was getting his
deserts. Then the woman began to weep and cried, “If the Lord thus
punishes one single word, how will it fare with my sons when they
appear before him in judgment?”

At midnight the robbers came home and blustered and stormed. They made
a fire, and when it had lighted up the cave and they saw a man lying
under the stairs, they fell in a rage and cried to their mother, “Who
is the man? Have we not forbidden any one whatsoever to be taken in?”
Then said the mother, “Let him alone, it is a poor sinner who is
expiating his crime.” The robbers asked, “What has he done?” “Old man,”
cried they, “tell us thy sins.” The old man raised himself and told
them how he, by one single word, had so sinned that God was angry with
him, and how he was now expiating this crime. The robbers were so
powerfully touched in their hearts by this story, that they were
shocked with their life up to this time, reflected, and began with
hearty repentance to do penance for it. The hermit, after he had
converted the three sinners, lay down to sleep again under the stairs.
In the morning, however, they found him dead, and out of the dry wood
on which his head lay, three green twigs had grown up on high. Thus the
Lord had once more received him into his favour.

Legend 7 Our Lady’s Little Glass