After some time the boy became ill, and for eight days could not leave
his bed; but as soon as he could get up again, the first thing he did
was to take his food to Our Lady. The priest followed him, and heard
him say, “Dear God, do not take it amiss that I have not brought you
anything for such a long time, for I have been ill and could not get
up.” Then the image answered him and said, “I have seen thy good-will,
and that is enough for me. Next Sunday thou shalt go with me to the
wedding.” The boy rejoiced at this, and repeated it to the priest, who
begged him to go and ask the image if he, too, might be permitted to
go. “No,” answered the image, “thou alone.” The priest wished to
prepare him first, and give him the holy communion and the child was
willing, and next Sunday, when the host came to him, he fell down and
died, and was at the eternal wedding.

Legend 10 The Hazel-Branch

One afternoon the Christ-child had laid himself in his cradle-bed and
had fallen asleep. Then his mother came to him, looked at him full of
gladness, and said, “Hast thou laid thyself down to sleep, my child?
Sleep sweetly, and in the meantime I will go into the wood, and fetch
thee a handful of strawberries, for I know that thou wilt be pleased
with them when thou awakest.” In the wood outside, she found a spot
with the most beautiful strawberries; but as she was stooping down to
gather one, an adder sprang up out of the grass. She was alarmed, left
the strawberries where they were, and hastened away. The adder darted
after her; but Our Lady, as you can readily understand, knew what it
was best to do. She hid herself behind a hazel-bush, and stood there
until the adder had crept away again. Then she gathered the
strawberries, and as she set out on her way home she said, “As the
hazel-bush has been my protection this time, it shall in future protect
others also.” Therefore, from the most remote times, a green
hazel-branch has been the safest protection against adders, snakes, and
everything else which creeps on the earth.