Produced by Roger Frank.

THE ADVENTURES OF
                               FLEET FOOT
                             AND HER FAWNS

A True-to-Nature Story for
                       Children and Their Elders

BY
                             ALLEN CHAFFEE

Author of
          "Twinkly Eyes," "The Little Black Bear," "Trail and
             Tree Top," and "Lost River, or The Adventures
                     of Two Boys in the Big Woods"

ILLUSTRATED

MILTON BRADLEY COMPANY
                       SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS

----

Copyright 1920, by
                         MILTON BRADLEY COMPANY

SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

Adventures of Fleet Foot
                   Bradley Quality Books for Children

----

TO
                                 POLLY
                             WHO IS A DEAR
                                HERSELF

----

CHAPTER I.--THE SPOTTED FAWNS.

"Me-o-ow!" screamed Old Man Lynx, from the heart of the woods. The two
spotted fawns heard the cry from their laurel copse on the rim of Lone
Lake. But, though their big, soft eyes were round with terror, so
perfectly had they been trained, they never so much as twitched an ear.
Well did they know that the slightest movement might show to some
prowler of the night just where they lay hidden.

Next morning, no sooner had the birds begun to chirp themselves awake,
than Mother Fleet Foot fed the fawns as usual and ate her own light
breakfast of lily pads, Then she lined up the two fawns before her.

"Children," she said, in deer language, "you have a great deal to learn
before ever you can take care of yourselves in these woods. From now on
we are going to have lessons."

"Yes, Mother," bleated the little ones, "but what are lessons."

"They are going to be as much like play as we can make them," said Fleet
Foot. "You need practice in running, and we must play 'Follow the
Leader' every day. Mother, of course, will be the leader. It will be
lots of fun."

The fawns waggled their ears in delight.

"Now listen, both of you," said Fleet Foot. "_This_ means danger! Follow
me!" And she stamped her foot three times and whistled, as she leaped
away through the bushes.

"Just watch my white flag, and you'll know where to follow," she called;
and she showed them how, when she ran, she held the white lining of her
tail straight up to show which way she had gone. This was because her
brown back might not show between the tree-trunks.

"And when I give the danger signal, you must give it, too, to warn the
others," she added, leaping back to their side.

"What others?" asked the tinier fawn.

"Any deer within ear-shot. That is how we help each other. And
remember--obey on the instant! It is the only safe way!"

Suddenly she gave the danger signal!

This time it was in real alarm, for she had spied a black snake wiggling
toward them. The fawns bounded after her, just in time to escape the
ugly fellow. And, because woods babies learn quickly they remembered to
give their own tiny stamp and whistle, their own wee white flags
wig-wagging behind them. Fleet Foot could have killed the snake with her
sharp fore-hoof, but a deer's long legs are better suited to running
away when danger is near.