"Now!" she stamped, taking the leap once more. The fawn followed till
she came to the log, then stopped short, with her nose against it. Fleet
Foot hurdled back, and coming up behind, butted the youngster with her
head till the fawn tried to jump. This time the little creature went
over, as light as a bit of thistle-down--probably much to her own
surprise.

Then Fleet Foot turned to the larger fawn. "Come, now, there's nothing
like trying," she urged. But he only gave a ba-a-ah! and wriggled under
the tree-trunk again.

"Follow me," his mother bade him. First she led him several times around
the glade. "Now!" she stamped, leaping the log once more. This time he
followed without stopping to think about it.

The other fawns behaved much the same way, but at last their mothers had
them all in line. Then what a race they had! First around and around the
opening, faster and faster and faster. Then, without warning, across the
log and back again, till every infant buck and doe of them could do it
perfectly.

"Um!" sniffed Frisky Fox. "Wouldn't one of those little fellows make
good eating? I'd certainly like to try it!" For the smell of venison
that blew to his nostrils on the breeze fairly made his mouth water.

But Frisky was too wise a pup to think for an instant he could catch
one. And so he finally trotted off to stay his appetite with field mice.
But he told Father Red Fox about it that night in the den on the
hillside, and the older fox made up his mind that next day he would be
the one to watch when the fawns came to the meadow. If he couldn't catch
one, at least he liked to know all that went on in the woods. One never
knew when an odd bit of knowledge might come in handy to a fellow that
lives by his wits.

That day the fawns were being drilled to run around and around in
circles. They made a track like a figure 8, only with three loops
instead of two. Sometimes one of the little fellows would slip and
stumble.

"I have it," Father Red Fox told himself. "The fawns are learning to
make a quick turn. Because they'd break their legs if they were to
stumble that way in the underbrush."

The old fox knew that he could never catch one by the usual methods. He
did wonder, though, if he might not corner one by trickery. So, gliding
from tree-trunk to tree-trunk, he crept nearer the unsuspecting little
school, keeping always on the side where the wind could tell no tales!

CHAPTER II.--A FOXY TRICK.

Now it was chiefly in a spirit of mischief that Father Red Fox decided
to chase the fawns. To tell the truth, the old fellow was proud of his
wits; and though he knew he could not hope to catch them and bring them
down by a straightaway race, he thought he might use some trickery on
them.