So, he watched and waited till he should find them alone. After an hour
or more in the racing meadow, Fleet Foot called to her little ones with
a "He-eu" and a stamp of her little fore-hoof, and led them back to Lone
Lake, where they all waded out after their supper of lily pads. Every
minute of the time Father Red Fox was right behind, but always with the
wind in his face, so that she wouldn't catch his musky scent on the
breeze with that wonderful nose of hers.

Now Father Red Fox knew one thing about Fleet Foot, the doe. He knew
that when she heard a sound that alarmed her, she always ran straight
away from the sound, without once stopping to see what made it. No
sooner, therefore, was she neck-deep in Lone Lake, with her back to the
shore, than he cracked a twig behind her.

The doe, hearing that, supposed of course it must be Old Man Lynx, at
least, or perhaps a big black bear, as nothing so small and dainty as a
fox ever made a sound like that.

She was terribly frightened, and whistling the fawns to follow, she swam
straight across the Lake, never once stopping for breath till they
scrambled up the opposite bank.

But Father Red Fox had raced around the upper end of the Lake, just far
enough back in the woods so that she couldn't see him. And the instant
the tired little family planted their hoofs on dry ground, Red Fox,
hiding behind a boulder, cracked an even larger twig, and made them
think there was another bear on that side of the Lake.

So she had to lead them back across the Lake again, to the third line of
shore. But Father Red Fox was there before her and cracked another twig
to make her think there was a bear on that side, too.

This time the fawns were fairly gasping for breath, their little spotted
sides heaving painfully and their big eyes round with fright. But there
was no help for it; Fleet Foot had to make them swim back across the
Lake to the fourth bank, where she hoped to get into the woods before
the three bears could catch her. She was quite worn out, herself, by
now, and it was only the fear of death that kept her in the race at all.
But finally up the bank she stumbled, and on down a forest trail, her
fawns following desperately.

Father Red Fox laughed as he ran around the Lake. They were all so worn
out that it should be an easy matter to corner them. In fact, that
wicked fellow had one of the meanest plans in his black heart that ever
deserved the name of a foxy trick. And so far it had worked.