Fleet Foot, believing she had nothing less than a bear on her trail,
raced on and on till her flanks dripped foam and her legs felt weak and
wobbly--which was just what the old fox intended. On he raced after her,
knowing she wouldn't stop even to turn her head.

Then, suddenly, he made a short cut in the trail and headed her straight
toward a brush heap. The tired doe drew her trembling legs together for
the leap that would carry her over in safety. But there was not quite
enough spring left in those delicate hind quarters. She came down too
soon, catching one of her slim feet in the brush. It broke her leg.

Ah, but Red Fox had hoped it would be one of the fawns. Fleet Foot he
dared not approach, because she could strike him with her sharp
fore-hoofs, and punish him severely. In fact, had she known it was only
a fox behind her, she would have stopped to face him long ago.

The fawns--little rascals that they were--had not tried to leap the
brush heap; they had left the trail and gone around it, hiding--when
their mother fell--by crawling under a juniper bush. And there they
waited, without so much as waggling an ear, till Red Fox had given up
his quest in disgust and trotted away home.

But their troubles were not ended. For one thing, they were hungry.
Besides, what was Fleet Foot to do, helpless there where a real bear
might find her?

Just then they heard a cowbell.

Clover Blossom, the soft-eyed Jersey at the Valley Farm, must have found
a broken place in the pasture fence, and wandered into the woods again.
She loved to go exploring.

This time she gave the Boy a chase. Here it was, nearly dark! Straining
his ears to catch the sound, he decided he must creep very softly upon
her, or she would never let him catch her.

The Boy, however, was not the only one to hear the tinkle of the
cowbell. Though Clover Blossom grazed quite unaware that she was being
watched, as an actual fact she had quite an audience of wood folk around
her, peering and sniffing and studying the situation. Softly, silently,
creeping through the hazel copse, came Frisky, the fox pup, as curious
as his nose was long. Then came Bobby, Madame Lynx's kitten, to whose
nostrils the odor was most tempting, though he did not dare attack an
animal so large. Crouched flat along a low-hanging branch, he peered and
peered with his narrow gold-green eyes, his claws working nervously into
the bark.

Came also Unk-Wunk, the Porcupine, rattling his slow way up a beech tree
from whose top he could see all that was going on. He, too, watched
curiously as the Jersey wandered from one huckleberry bush to another,
lowing faintly now and then as she realized that she needed to be
milked.