In the pink dawn she awoke at the sound of the milk-pails, and her first
thought was of the fawns. The Boy brought her a hatful of grass; but her
great eyes only searched wistfully through the woodland and meadow
before the open door, and on to the dew-wet forest where she thought
they waited, and she struggled weakly to get to her feet and go to them.

"She's worrying about her babies," said the Boy. "Can't we show them to
her?" he begged his father.

"The only trouble with that," the farmer replied, "is that, once they
get a sight of her, they won't have anything more to do with Clover
Blossom, and she's got to take care of them till their own mother is
well again. But that leg will heal quickly. The bone was broken in only
one place. We've got to keep her quiet, though,--and the fawns are
better off where they are."

Thus several weeks went by, till at last Fleet Foot was able to trip
daintily into the pasture lot. But still she worried about the fawns.
She was comfortable and well fed, and was even becoming used to the Boy,
who brought her food and water every morning and sometimes a few grains
of rock salt. Through the bars of the open doorway she could gaze
straight into the cool green woods all day. Had it not been for her
longing for the fawns, she would have been quite content to lie still
and get well.

The bone had set quickly, for her life in the open had given her pure
blood and much reserve strength. But she was anxious to make her escape
and search for her babies. Little did she dream, in the confusion of
sounds and smells that filled the barn every day, that the pair actually
came to Clover Blossom's stall.

Meantime, the fawns throve on the Jersey milk. Though too shy to mingle
with the cows and sheep in the pasture lot, they spent their days in a
clump of alders down by the brook.

"Won't they be happy when they get their own mother back?" the Boy
exclaimed to his father one evening.

The Father looked at his son in a puzzled way.

"The doe has disappeared," he announced. "I had just taken the splints
off her leg. It was healed as good as new. Thought I'd turn her loose in
the pasture to limber up a bit, when--would you believe it?--she leaped
clean over that fence, and off into the woods out of sight."

"Honestly?" exclaimed the Boy. "Without so much as a thank you! And what
will become of her now?"

"Oh, she'll be all right. But isn't it a shame now we didn't let her
have her fawns?"

"Perhaps we can keep them ourselves," ventured the Boy wistfully, for he
loved pets. "We could tame them and let them grow up with the cows.
They're half tame already."

"I don't believe a wild thing is ever really happy that way," mused the
Farmer. "Do you?"