"No, perhaps not," decided the Boy. "And besides, their mother will
break her heart if she never finds them again."

"She'll feel badly, of course. But don't you see, the fawns will take to
the woods again, sooner or later, unless we keep them tied all the time.
And then do you know what would happen? They wouldn't know how to take
care of themselves, without their mother's training."

"Oh," said the Boy. "And some hungry animal might catch them for its
dinner!"

"I'm afraid so," agreed the Farmer. "It is always the young animals that
have lost their mothers that get caught."

"Say, I've noticed a funny thing," said the Boy, a few days later.
"Clover Blossom has been giving more milk lately, and yet the fawns
aren't weaned."

"You didn't see what I saw last night," said the Farmer, smiling. And he
told the Boy where to watch.

Meantime what had become of Fleet Foot? First she leaped the fence, and
took to the trail down which Clover Blossom had wandered--here over the
smooth pine needles, there through the crackling oak leaves, and yonder
over a fallen log. And as she went, she nibbled course after course of
the dainties of the woodland.

How fit she felt, after her long imprisonment! How swift her slender
hoofs, how strong her long hind legs that could send her over a hazel
copse like steel springs! And how good it was to be alive in a world all
sunshine and dancing butterflies and tinkling streams!

But where were her fawns? She searched and searched for some sign of the
little fellows. But she searched in vain. And all the joy went out of
life again.

Then, one evening, as she stood on a hill-top watching the Boy drive the
cows home from pasture, she saw something that made her lonely heart
beat high with hope. She couldn't make out the little spotted coats so
far away, but she did see their red-brown outlines, so tiny beside the
cows, and the furtive way they shied along, as if they never could get
used to coming right out in the open. And her anxious mother-heart
assured her that they were worth a closer view.

So, the next night, before they turned off the lane to the pasture lot,
the fawns heard the little stamp that had always been their mother's
signal. "Wait where you are--and hide!" she bade them with her whistled
"Hiew!" "I will come to you."

And they obeyed, thrilling with a great wave of homesick longing for the
mother they had thought lost to them. The Boy, tip-toeing back to see
what had become of his pets, found the doe in the pasture lot, nursing
her fawns.

And though he did not know it, she stayed with them until the first gray
light in the east warned her that she must leave them for the day. For
the fence was too high for the fawns to leap.