The next night the Boy watched again, from the cover of the hay-stack.
Before long the doe leaped smoothly into the pasture, stamping for the
fawns. Then he saw the flash of her white tail signaling for them to
follow, and after that, two tinier tails wig-wagging through the dusk as
they disappeared in the alders down by the brook that ran through the
lower end of the pasture.

The Boy stared after them awhile, a smile of sympathy in his eyes.
Then--ever so softly, so as not to alarm them--he slipped across to
where she had leaped the fence, and lifted the top bars away.

The next morning the fawns were gone!

----

CHAPTER IV.--THE ROUND-UP.

Once back in the good green woods, both Fleet Foot and the fawns capered
joyously.

It was good just to be alive.

Up and down through the forest trails they galloped,--down to Lone Lake,
then back to Pollywog Pond and along the familiar trails on the slopes
of Mt. Olaf. Summer was even riper and lovelier than when they had been
taken to the Valley Farm,--and to the fawns, remember, it was their
first taste of mid-summer in the Maine woods.

These tiny fellows leaped and gamboled hide-and-seek, till you would
have thought they would have broken their fragile legs among the
boulders and fallen tree-trunks. But their mother knew her training had
been thorough, and they would know just how to leap and land with
safety.

"Hello, there!--Chick-a-dee-dee, Chick-a-dee-dee," a little gray bird in
a black cap kept calling, as he followed from tree to tree.

When at last they had had their dinner of warm milk, and Fleet Foot had
cropped her fill of the tender green things that lay like a banquet
table everywhere about them, she led them to a little rocky ledge that
over-looked Lone Lake, where they could lie under the partial shade of a
clump of yellow birch trees and rest, while she chewed her cud. The
black fly season was well past, and there was nothing to disturb them
save a passing swarm of midges that couldn't begin to bite through their
thick fur.

(They little dreamed that Frisky, the Red Fox Pup, was peering down on
them from a higher crag, where he, too, crouched on the red-brown soil
that proved such a perfect cam-ou-flage.)

No one save a fox could have seen the fawns, so long as they lay still,
their tawny orange-brown coats blended so perfectly with the ground. And
if anyone had noticed the white spots on their sides, he would have
taken them for a glint of the creamy birch-bark.

At first the 'two youngsters watched a yellow-jacketed bumble-bee, who
bumbled and tumbled among the perfumed spikes of the Solomon's seals.
Then their ears pricked to a new voice.

"Greetings, my friends!" called a cheery red-brown coated bird who had
been rustling about among the dead leaves just behind them.

He was as large as a robin, with even longer beak and tail, and his
creamy breast was streaked with darker brown.