Now Lop Ear had always had an important duty at the Valley Farm. It had
been his part to round up the cows when night came, or when any of them
went astray in the woods. And all day yesterday he had missed Fleet Foot
from her stall in the hay-barn.

True, she had always seemed different from the regular cows. Until she
came there with her broken leg, he had always supposed she belonged in
the woods. But surely, surely the Farmer would not have kept her there
unless she belonged there, reasoned the, faithful dog. And now she was
gone!

There was but one thing to do: he must go in search of her and bring her
home.

All that day he tried in vain to find her trail. The next morning he was
up with the sun. This time he would search farther afield. "Wow!
Bow-wow! Wow-wow-wow!" Here was a footprint, unless his nose deceived
him! What's more, they had passed that way not ten minutes since! It was
but a matter of following the trail, and he would be nipping at their
heels and driving them back to the Farm.

"Wow-wow-wow!" he bayed; and Frisky, the Red Fox Pup, heard and came
trotting to peek at him and see what it was all about.

The sound filled the fawns with uneasiness. They had always been afraid
of Lop Ear, with his nipping and yapping around the cattle.

"Children," bade Fleet Foot sternly, "hurry to that clump of bracken and
lie down. Stretch your heads and fore legs out straight in front of you
and lie there as flat as you can make yourselves,--while I lead this
hound off somewhere where he'll lose your scent."

The fawns obeyed instantly.

Fleet Foot then doubled back on her trail, and with a stamp and a snort
to call the hound's attention, she soon had him following her great
bounds in quite the opposite direction. She kept just far enough ahead
of him to make sure he wouldn't give up the chase--though she could
easily have out-distanced him.

----

CHAPTER V.--A SON OF THE WILD.

Now Frisky, the Red Fox Pup, admired no one so much as he did his
father. And he had heard his father tell how he had chased the doe and
her fawns that dreadful day when Fleet Foot broke her leg.

Not that the little rascal really wanted to hurt those gentle soft-eyed
babies. He wasn't hungry, and besides, he couldn't have killed them had
he wanted to. He just thought it would be fun to play that he was Father
Red Fox and give them a good scare. (But how were the fawns to know
that?) In other words, like a great many very young persons, he didn't
stop to think of the other fellow's point of view in the matter.

Thus, no sooner had he seen Fleet Foot headed in the other direction,
leaving the fawns unprotected, than he pranced merrily up to them, his
yellow eyes gleaming with mischief.