"Yip, yip!" he yelled at them in his high-pitched little voice.

Now the fawns had been told to lie still. But how could they, when
danger was almost upon them? They were certainly not going to lie there
and let this little wild dog bite them!

With a bleat of alarm they sprang to their feet and raced through the
brush, leaping over bush and brier and boulder as if their very lives
depended on it.

But Frisky Fox could also leap bush and brier and boulder. And he came
leaping after, just two jumps behind them!

Now around a clump of greenbriar, down a trail of dainty pointed hoof
prints that led through brush head high,--up hill, down hill the trio
sped, startling the pheasants and sending them into the air with a
whirr.

Here the trail turned abruptly down the side of a precipice, and the
fawns followed, while Frisky, having paused for a moment when his tail
got caught in a bramble, had to come trotting after with his nose to the
ground, as he could no longer see them.

Now the fawns had never been taught that water carries no scent. They
just happened to go splashing across a bit of a frog pond that lay
cupped among hillocks of seedling pines. But looking back at every
seventh leap or so, they could see that the fox pup followed his nose to
the water's edge, and there stopped and sniffed all about uncertainly,
before again catching a glimpse of them.

But though the chase went merrily on (that is, merrily on the fox's
part), the fawns had learned a valuable lesson.

They now made straight for Lone Lake, and my! You should have seen the
ducks take flight as these two alarming little fellows came splashing in
among them!

A deer, when pursued by hounds, will always take to water when he can,
and the hounds have no scent to follow. Then, unless there is a hunter
along, and he catches sight of his quarry, and fires, the deer are safe.

The Red Fox Pup uses his eyes, as well as his nose, and he was so close
behind, and understood so well this trick of taking to water, (for he
escaped the hounds that way himself), that he wasn't fooled the least
little bit in the world. Not he!

Only once they had taken the plunge, the little fellows decided to swim
out to a reedy islet where they could rest. And the fox pup didn't think
it worth while to get his fur wet. For when his great brush of a tail
gets wet, it is so heavy that it weighs him down, and he can't run
nearly so fast, so the mice all get away.

Of course the fawns thought it was all their own cleverness, and you
should have heard them telling Fleet Foot about it when she found them
there!

The fawns never tired of watching the life that stirred everywhere about
them, their great soft eyes filled with pleasant wonder.