One day it would be the one soft cluck of Mother Grouse Hen, calling to
her chicks to hide before Frisky Fox should pass that way.

When he had passed, looking so wise and knowing, (with his bright eyes
peering into every nook and corner, and his pointed little nose testing
the air for a taint), Mother Grouse Hen would give a different sort of
cluck; and back the frightened chicks would come to her, and she would
gather them comfortingly under her wings, pressing each wee brown baby
to her down-covered breast to reassure him.

Then she would utter a soft, brooding cluck that told them how she loved
them, and how safe they were with Mother to look out for them.

----

CHAPTER VI.--A STRANGE FRIENDSHIP.

What was the matter with the hen-roost at the Valley Farm, the fox pup
asked himself? He had killed so many field mice in the course of the
summer that he felt he was really entitled to one of the farmer's nice
fat hens,--because the mice might have destroyed the farmer's crops, had
Frisky not prevented.

At the same time he knew that Lop Ear, the hound at the Valley Farm,
would have another opinion in the matter.

Frisky sat up and thought.

Lop Ear would give the alarm, and then, even if he threw the hound off
the scent, there would be men with guns, and more dodging of bullets
than he cared to risk. He had often seen it, watching from his hill-top
in the woods. And he always tried to profit by other people's
experience.

Suddenly his bright eyes began to snap. The very idea! He would make
friends with Lop Ear.

Then Lop Ear might try to be sound asleep on the night when Frisky
visited the chicken coop; and should the Hired Man get out his gun, the
hound would surely lose his trail.

Thereafter, for days on end, Frisky made the strangest advances to the
dignified old hound, whenever the latter fared forth into the woods to
catch him a mouse for supper. It was very much like a puppy trying to
coax an old dog to play.

"Come chase me!" Frisky would invite, dancing ahead just out of Lop
Ear's reach. Then, "I'll chase you," he would vary the program. And Lop
Ear (half unwillingly) played the role assigned him, till at last he
came to look on his evening ramble in the woods with Frisky as a
distinct part of his day's pleasuring.

Not that Frisky ever came within reach of Lop Ear's jaws. No, indeed!
That was carrying the thing a bit too far. But he did finally get the
hound to the point where he no longer considered it his duty to try to
make an end of the young fox. And he really enjoyed their games of hide
and seek.

The Boy from the Valley Farm did not know what to make of Lop Ear's
growing fondness for solitary rambles.