One night, when the October moon gleamed cool and sparkling through the
fringe of fir trees, young Frisky Fox might have been seen loping softly
through the corn-field.

"Who goes there?" bayed Lop Ear, as he leaped the barn-yard fence.

"Come and play," coaxed Frisky. "You can't catch me!" and leaping up the
sloping roof of the hen-house, he squeezed gracefully through the barred
window. A moment more and there was a stifled squawk and Frisky squeezed
his way back through the bars, dragging a hen behind him.

But alas for the best laid plans.

"Bow-wow-wow! You can't do that, you know!" suddenly bayed Lop Ear.
"That's carrying the game a little too far. After all, I have my duty to
perform."

"What is it?" yelled the Hired Man, poking his head from his
sleeping-room in the barn-loft. "A fox, eh?" and he grabbed for his gun,
leaning far out to scan the moonlit fields.

Frisky Fox, by keeping the shed between himself and the gun, made off
through the corn-field with the hen across his shoulder.

Lop Ear, his warning uttered, now dashed madly in quite the wrong
direction,--for the memory of the fox pup's friendship was strong upon
him. But the Hired Man was not to be fooled.

In less time than it takes to tell it, he was out circling the field,
gun in hand. And the bright moonlight soon showed him where the
cornstalks rustled with Frisky's passing.

"Hi, there!" yelled the Hired Man, gun in hand, as he raced around the
corn-field.

But Frisky was an excellent judge of distance, and he knew to a
certainty that he was out of gun range.

He therefore deliberately stopped where he was and snatched a bite of
his hen.

As the Hired Man came nearer, the fox pup ran farther, always keeping
just about so much distance between himself and the gun. He could easily
have out-distanced his pursuer. But he was in a mischievous mood
to-night, and it pleased him to see how far he could go toward devouring
the entire hen while the angry man looked on.

He did it, too, saucily enough, gobbling a bite here and a bite there,
looking back over his shoulder the while at the man with the gun. One or
two shots did ring out on the crisp night air, kicking up the dirt a few
rods behind him, but Frisky Fox ate on, secure by those few rods of
space, as well he knew.

Only once did he miscalculate, the shot landing so near him that he knew
the next one would surely get him if the Hired Man tried again.

Quick as a flash the clever rascal toppled over on his side, playing
dead. The ruse worked, for the Hired Man did not shoot again. And while
he was fumbling his way through the corn-field to where he believed the
fox lay waiting, Frisky was making for the woods with his nimble black
feet fairly twinkling over the ground.