One misty morning, as Fleet Foot was leading them in great bounds
through the tall meadow grass, the fawns came to a sudden stand-still,
their eyes popping with surprise. For they had just barely escaped
stepping on the writhing coils of a great long snake.

Their bleat of fear brought Fleet Foot instantly.

"Pouf! That's only a garter snake," she reassured them, with one glance
at the length-wise stripes (yellow and dark gray). "That's nothing to be
afraid of. The only kind you want to look out for is the kind with
cross-wisp stripes. I don't believe there is more than one snake in all
the North Woods that is poisonous,--and there are at least a dozen that
are perfectly harmless."

"What is the poisonous one?" bleated the trembling fawns.

"The rattler. But you won't see one of those in a year's time,--not in
these woods, where it gets so cold in winter. They love it hot and dry,
and so of course they live mostly out West, though you do find a few
sometimes among the rocks on the warm south side of a mountain."

"Oo! What if we'd meet a rattler?" shivered the fawns.

"Well, he'd warn you before you went too near."

"Warn us?--How?"

"He'd rattle, of course. He has a little set of bones on his tail that
he can rattle, and when you hear that, you need to look out, and get
away quickly."

"Are the others really harmless, Mother?"

"Harmless to fawns. That is, they have no poison bite. Snakes do a lot
of good, eating pests."

"But I don't like snakes," insisted the tinier fawn.

"Well, neither does Mother. But it's so silly, children, to be afraid.
Where is that garter snake? Gone, to be sure! And even the rattler only
strikes because he thinks you are going to kill him."

The fawns were very thoughtful after that. "Mother," they finally
bleated, "Seems as if even the meanest creatures in the woods had _some_
use."

"That's right," their mother answered them.

----

CHAPTER IX--THE OGRE OF THE AIR.

It was one of those breezy days when white wind clouds piled up against
the sky, and patches of shadow traveled across the mountain-sides.

Fleet Foot had decided to take the fawns to Mountain Pond, in the pass
between Mount Olaf and Old Bald-face, a peak that had been burned bare
of trees by a forest fire, and now grew nothing much save blue-berries
for the bears to feast on.

Fleet Foot wasn't a bit afraid of bears at this time of year, knowing
how greatly they prefer a vegetarian diet, though, at that, she didn't
intend to go too near. (After all, the steep gulch of Beaver Brook Bed
lay between the two mountain-sides.)