They had a lovely time at the Pond, where they met several other does,
with their fawns, and the youngsters played together while their mothers
gossiped over their cuds. The cool breeze ruffled their fur
delightfully, and they found enough shade in the patch of woods that
huddled in the head of the gulch.

As the sun neared the tops of the purple peaks that faded away to the
west, the little group started back down the trail to where there was
more herbage to browse upon, Fleet Foot lingering along to allow the
fawns plenty of time to pick out a sure footing. For it was their first
trip over this particular trail.

Carefully they wound over a great over-hanging boulder, on the edge of
which they paused to peer, with braced hoofs, over the precipice, which
here dropped sheer to the rocks below. Just beyond, the first falls of
Beaver Brook dashed green-white over the ledges.

Then Fleet Foot hurried on to the foot of the falls, where one might
take a shower bath in the spray.

"Come on, children," she whistled over her shoulder, her eyes on the
path ahead. And the tinkle of the falling water filled her ears till she
could not have heard their foot-steps following, had she tried.

But fawns will be fawns. And the youngsters stopped to watch a queer
shadow that now danced across their path. Cloud shadows they had watched
all day, but this one was different. In the first place, it was such a
tiny thing,--for a cloud. And it danced about in the most amusing
manner,--much faster than any cloud shadow they had seen before. In
fact, it seemed to be going around and around them in big circles. And
it looked exactly as if the little cloud had wings like a bird.

Alas for two such little helpless ones!--Had they but looked above their
heads, instead of at the circling shadow, they would have discovered
that it was a giant bird that made it. In short, it was Baldy the Eagle,
the ogre of the air,--and an ogre that especially delighted in having
fawn for supper!

An ugly fellow was Baldy, with his great curved beak and his great
yellow claws. His body alone was bigger than that of the fawns, and his
wings spread out like the wings of an aeroplane. He was mostly a muddy
brown, with white head and fan-spread tail, and he smelled horribly
fishy, for he isn't a bit particular about what he eats, and frequently
stuffs himself so full of the spoiled fish he finds on the shore that he
can't even fly.

The air hissed to his wings.

He waited now till he felt that Fleet Foot was surely too far away to
come to their rescue, should he attack the fawns. For he knew from
experience that with her sharp hoofs she could put up a fight he would
rather not face.