For a while he wandered if he should just simply drop down upon one of
the little fellows and pin his talons into his back, and fly away to his
nest. But it would be awfully heavy to carry and of course it would kick
and wriggle, 'till like enough he would be unable to manage his
feathered aeroplane, and they would run into some jagged rock.

If the fawns had been orphans, he might have killed one right there, and
no one would have interfered.

But they were not orphans, and their mother would come racing back and
cut him to pieces with those knife-edged fore-hoofs.

Ha! An idea popped into his ugly old head.--He would scare one of the
fawns off the edge of the precipice, and it would leap to its death on
the rocks below; and then he could wait till Fleet Foot had gone, for
his feast.

Swooping lower and lower, while still the foolish fawns stared
innocently at the dancing shadow, he suddenly flapped his wings about
the tinier fawn, startling him terribly, but not enough to make him back
off the cliff.

Stronger measures must be tried,--and there was no time to waste; for at
the fawn's first bleat of terror, Fleet Foot heard and was now leaping
like the wind, back the trail to his rescue.

Swooping again, Baldy began beating the little fellow with great heavy
blows of his middle wing joints. It hurt dreadfully, and the frightened
fawn turned first this way, then that, in his endeavor to get away.
Nearer and nearer the edge of the precipice he crowded. Now one hind
foot had actually slipped off the rock face, and he had to struggle to
regain his balance.

Then the one thing happened that could have saved him. Fleet Foot
reached the spot. Rearing furiously on her hind legs, she struck at
Baldy's head with her sharp hoofs, tearing great wounds in his scalp.
Then, with a scream of rage and pain, he raised his wings and slanted
swiftly upward, wings hissing, to his granite peak.

The fawn was not seriously hurt,--only terribly frightened. His back was
bruised, but that would heal, and he would be none the worse for his
experience.

But where was the other fawn?--They found him wedged in between the
boulders,--the one place where he could ever have escaped the beat of
those wings. Fleet Foot praised him mightily for having so much sense,
and he felt quite cocky,--though of course his brother was the real hero
of the day.

One other danger marred their summer.

Every now and again, as they were passing beneath some low-hanging
branch, they would catch a glimpse of a tawny form flattened along the
limb, watching them with pale yellow eyes that gleamed through narrowed
lids.

Perhaps it would be in a deep, dark hemlock thicket, or a cedar swamp,
that they would meet the giant cat.