He was a ferocious-looking fellow, was Old Man Lynx, with his great,
square, whiskered face, and his ears with their black tassels and the
black stripe down the middle of his back. And my, how his claws crunched
the bark as he sharpened them! How his whiskers twitched and his mouth
watered as the fawns passed beneath him! He seemed all teeth and claws.

Perhaps the little family would be drowsing peacefully in the shade of a
long September afternoon when suddenly some spirit of their ancestors,
(or was it some guardian angel of their antlered tribe?) would whisper
"Danger!" and set their fur to rising along their spines in a cold
shiver of nameless fear.

Had Old Man Lynx ever really put it to the test, he could have won out
with Fleet Foot. But he knew the sharp drive of her little hoofs, and he
was terribly afraid of pain. (Did he not wear a great scar in his side,
due to an adventure of his rash young days, when a fat buck had given
him a rip with his antlers?)

Perhaps that was why Fleet Foot always raced away in a wide curve that
presently brought her back to where she could peer curiously at the
invader of her solitude, without herself being seen.

She used to spy in the same way on Old Man Red Fox, and Frisky, his
promising young hopeful.

In fact, what with Frisky spying on the fawns, and the fawns watching
Frisky, these children of hostile tribes kept pretty close track of one
another.

The summer passed on the whole, however, with no more adventure than the
sound of the lonely "Hoo-woo-o-o-o" of a loon at twilight, or the sudden
whirr of a startled pheasant's wings, or a quarrel between some wicked
red squirrel caught robbing a crow's nest. (Or was it a crow that had
robbed the squirrel's little hoard, and was getting handsomely scolded
for his villainy?).

----

CHAPTER X.--WILD GRAPES.

It had been one of those cool, crisp days when the sun shone just warm
enough to feel good to the furred and feathered folk. Frisky, the Red
Fox Pup, had been creeping up on a flying squirrel, who sat nibbling the
ripe berries of the Solomon's Seal with her three little ones beside
her, when the entire family took alarm and went leaping back to the
beech-nut tree.

Now Frisky had not reached the age of six whole months in vain. He had
sharp eyes, and he used them. And he had never seen a squirrel that
could spread sail like that. He felt that his eyes must have deceived
him.

He forgot his surprise at the very next turn of the trail, when he
suddenly spied a tangle of wild grape vine that hung in a canopy of the
luscious purple clusters over the stag-horn sumac.