Frisky Fox had never seen wild grapes before, though he had often passed
the vines when the fruit was green. Now his keen little nose told him
enough to make him eager for a taste.

But the fruit hung just too high. Leaping into the air, he occasionally
got a nibble from the low-hanging bunches. But these only served to whet
his appetite for more.

To add to his discontent, Fairy the Flying Squirrel suddenly sailed down
from a tree-top, alighting on the very top of the grapevine canopy. And
there she perched saucily and munched and sucked at grape after grape
before his very eyes.

This was too much for Frisky. Around and around the vines he circled,
screwing up his courage for a leap.

He finally discovered a place where the vine hugged a slanting tree
trunk, and he climbed as far as he could.

The next instant Fairy had sailed back to her branch as easily as if she
had been laughing at him. But Frisky didn't mind that. It would take
just a stretch of his neck and his jaws would close on a great cluster
of the fragrant fruit.

If young Frisky Fox had only been content with that one taste, all might
have been well. But just beyond was a larger bunch. Frisky gave a leap,
landing on his tip-toes on crossed vines. But the vines parted beneath
his weight, and down he plunged--almost to the ground, but not quite.
Not far enough for a foot-hold.

And there he hung, head downward, hind legs tangled in the vines, unable
to better his position!

My, how he writhed and squirmed, and bit at the vine that shackled him!
But to no avail! He was a prisoner, just as surely as if he had been
tied with a rope. Little his brains availed him now.

If any one had asked young Frisky Fox, as he hung head downward from
that grapevine, what he thought of the situation, he would have said it
couldn't be worse.

Yet it speedily became worse,--so much worse, indeed, that Frisky
redoubled his efforts to free himself,--though he had an awful feeling
that it was no use.

It was Tattle-tale the Jay who warned him.

Tattle-tale kept pretty close track of all that went on in the forest,
and then told all he knew.

So many times had he flown ahead of Frisky Fox, screaming at the top of
his lungs: "A Fox! A Fox! Beware!" that Frisky had come to dread the
sound of his voice.

This time Tattle-tale, who played no favorites, was doing Frisky a good
turn, but the little fox was in no position to appreciate the fact.

"Look out, there! Look out, everybody," Tattle-tale was screaming. "Old
Man Lynx is coming!"

"Old Man Lynx!" squeaked Shadow Tail, the Red Squirrel, making for his
hole in the oak tree.

"OLD MAN LYNX, Mammy, Old Man Lynx!" squealed Timothy Cottontail,
hopping madly for a hollow log.