"Old Man Lynx!" grunted Unk-Wunk, the Porcupine. "A lot I care!" And he
rolled himself up into a prickly ball in the top of a swaying birch
tree.

"Old Man Lynx!" thought Frisky Fox, fairly beside himself with frenzy.
Hanging there heels uppermost in the grapevine, he was as helpless as a
mouse in a trap. And here was the great cat, his ancient enemy,
creeping, creeping, creeping through the shadows, his nose sniffing this
way and that for the scent that would tell him where to find a good
supper.

Another moment and out of the tail of his eye he saw the great, heavy,
bob-tailed cat, with his cruel face, squared off with a fringe of
whiskers that framed his chin, and sharp ears tasseled with little tufts
of fur at their tips.

The yellow eyes gleamed evilly as Old Man Lynx caught sight of Frisky
hanging there so helplessly, and his grizzled gray-brown fur rose along
his spine.

Now he was wriggling along the ground flattened out like a snake. Now he
was creeping up the tree trunk as silently as a shadow, and now he was
gathering his legs beneath him for the leap that would land him squarely
on Frisky Fox.

Frisky knew that one crunch of those gleaming teeth would end it all, so
far as the Red Fox Pup was concerned.

But Frisky had a trick up his sleeve. His wits were still in working
order.

"What a pity!" sighed Shadow Tail, the Red Squirrel, as he peered from
his hole in the oak tree.

For Old Man Lynx had no objection what-ever to having fox for supper.
The only objection he had to foxes was that he could never catch one.

For to look at poor Frisky Fox, his red-brown fur still soft and silky,
his black feet tapering so delicately and his white throat exposed, it
didn't seem as if he had a show in the world of escaping the huge cat.

But Old Man Lynx was stupid. He had nothing but his powerful muscles and
his murderous teeth and claws, whereas Frisky had the nimble wit of one
who lives by being both hunter and hunted.

And even as he waited for the leap for which he saw the Lynx preparing,
he thought of a way out of both the grapevine and the danger he was in.

The next instant the Old Man gave one of his blood-curdling screeches,
by which he so often paralyzed his prey with fright. Then he dropped to
the branch just above, claws out for Frisky Fox.

But the very instant his heavy form touched the tangled vines, they gave
way beneath him, and he, too, went crashing down in a net-work that held
him fast. And, what's more, his huge weight loosed the vines that held
Frisky prisoner.