But wait! With his great steel claws the giant cat wrenched himself
free. Frisky made for a clump of greenbriar, for his leg had gone to
sleep, and he couldn't run right till it had had time to wake up.

Was Old Man Lynx to get him after all?

There was only one reason why he didn't--he had no great fondness for
brambles. Cats, wild and tame, are mighty fond of their own skins, and
Old Man Lynx was no exception. He'd have to be mighty hungry before he'd
either scratch his fur out or get it wet.

While Old Man Lynx thought it over, Frisky Fox was certainly not
standing still. Not Frisky! He was struggling so hard to tear himself
free that the brambles were all trimmed up with little tufts of his
tawny coat.

That the gray form crouched so near him meant to spring he could easily
guess, and his heart thumped so loudly in his furry chest that he could
hardly breathe. Eyes straining wide with fright, as he tugged this way
and that, (for he was really caught fast again), he suffered far more
from terror than from the pain of the brambles. His leg was awake now,
and with one last twinge he wrenched himself loose.

At the same instant the great gray cat launched itself almost upon him.

But Frisky was too quick for it. By the time Old Man Lynx had reached
the spot, Frisky was tearing down the slope.

Now lynxes have poor eyesight. Following their nose is their one best
guide. Of this Frisky was aware, as his mother had told him so.

He could hear the great cat scrambling after him at a terrific pace. But
he was going too fast to try any dodges, for one stumble and the other
would be upon him. If it had been Mother Red Fox, she could have laughed
at her pursuer. But Frisky was only a pup, remember, and his short legs
had all they could do to keep ahead of such a big fellow.

Just as he was beginning to wonder how long this would keep up, he
recalled something else his mother had taught him. Lynxes cannot swim.
At least, they won't. The river was just off to the left, and with a
quick turn and a sidewise leap that might or might not throw the Old Man
off his scent, he dashed for the water.

On the very brink of the moonlit current, he suddenly remembered one
thing more. The last time he had tried that swim he had let his tail get
so wet and heavy that he had only reached the other bank by hanging on
to his father's brush. Now there was no one to tow him. Should he risk
it, or was he safer where he was?

To cross or not to cross, that was the question before him.