Their coats were still olive-green, mottled with darker splotches, and
on their sides the green melted into yellow, with the little red spots
and speckles that give the trout their name.

Their thousands of tiny scales were like suits of mail,--which came in
very handy when they fought, as you shall see.

Now the fawns noticed that the larger and brighter colored fish were
prospecting around in the shallows, where the water ran fastest,
shoveling the gravel about with their bony noses, aided by their tails.
Each trout soon had a little nest scooped out in the stream bed, and
over it he stood guard, (or perhaps we ought to say swam guard),
defending his homestead against all comers.

Sometimes a larger trout would come by and try to steal the nest of a
smaller fish; and then what a fight they had! How they butted each other
about, ramming each other's soft sides, and even, at times, biting each
other on the lip. It must have hurt dreadfully, because each trout had a
mouthful of the sharpest teeth, that turned backward, so that when they
caught a worm he was hooked as surely as he would be on the end of a
fish-line.

In trout-land, you know, it is the father of the family that makes the
nest. He it is who wears the gayest clothing, too,--because if the
mother were too bright colored, her enemies could see her on her nest.

Once the nests were ready the mother trout came swimming upstream and
promptly set to work filling them with leathery yellow-brown eggs, which
they covered with gravel so that no pike or other cannibal of the
river's bottom could find and make a breakfast off of them.

The fawns marveled as they watched, day after day, till at last the
trout all went back into deep water for the winter, leaving the eggs
behind them. And Fleet Foot explained how, next spring, each leathery
brown egg that had escaped the cannibal fish and the muskrats would be
burst open by the baby trout inside, and out would wiggle the teeniest,
weeniest troutlet you can possibly imagine!

----

CHAPTER XII.--THE VICTOR.

One evening when the frost lay glittering in the moonlight, the fawns
were suddenly awakened, in their soft beds of drifted leaves, by a loud
belling down on the lake shore; and wide-eyed, they tip-toed down to see
what it meant.

There on the muddy beach--stamped with long lines of little cloven hoof
prints--stood a handsome buck, with polished antlers, dancing about as
if too full of energy to stand still.

Now the fawns had never seen their father, for he had been killed by a
hunter. And the other bucks of the herd had been rambling about all
summer in the higher hills.

They now saw Fleet Foot mince daintily down to inspect the new-comer,
who was belling his greeting at the top of his lungs.