But the meeting was brought to a sudden end. For out of the woods
pranced another buck, belling a saucy challenge to a fight. Fleet Foot
withdrew to a safe distance, as did the fawns, and watched admiringly as
the two bucks came together; and the excitement, no less than the keen,
frosty air, set the blood to racing hot through their young veins.

Stamping their steel-shod hoofs defiantly and tossing their antlered
heads in the pride of their strength, the two bucks bellowed their
battle challenge.

"Well, where did you come from?" shrilled Fleet Foot's champion.

"Never mind that. I've come to stay," bellowed the new-comer. "If either
of us has got to go, it will be yourself, because I'm the strongest."

"Not if I know myself!"

"Look out! The strongest wins!"

"Yes, the strongest wins. So look out for your own self!" and the first
buck gave a shrill snort of defiance.

Straightway the pair began dancing a sort of war-dance around each
other. Slim and supple, they looked about equally fit.

Fleet Foot stepped gracefully a little nearer, and stood looking on,
with her back to the fawns,--who thought best to keep their distance.
They noticed that another little audience had gathered on the opposite
side of the lake,--a couple of yearling bucks with proud spikes of horns
and three with two-pronged antlers.

Around and around the two combatants tip-toed, heads flung back, chins
in air. Then they lowered their antlers like shields, and Fleet Foot's
champion got in a good dig at the other's ribs. With a bellow of rage,
the second buck came plunging, and the two crashed together, antlers
against antlers. Their sharp hoofs fairly ploughed the ground as they
strove and struggled and pushed each other about, the very whites of
their eyes showing in their rage.

"There's ginger for you!" thought the fawns.

Now the fighting pair were shouldering each other about roughly with
their horns, lips foaming, gasping for breath,--almost locking horns in
a butting match. At last the first buck lifted his knife-edged forelegs
and struck at the intruder. The next moment he was belling in triumph,
for he had cut a great gash in the other's shoulder, and the latter had
had enough.

The victor now turned for the look of admiration he felt he ought to
find in Fleet Foot's eyes. But instead, he barely caught a glimpse of
her dancing away through the thicket, with just one merry backward
glance to see if he would race her.

But he knew where to follow; for there was the faintest, loveliest
perfume on the air where she had passed.