The fawns gazed after the pair, as they disappeared, then found
themselves alone. All that month, while the woods turned from scarlet
and yellow to brown and gray, and the nights grew frosty under the
stars, the fawns were left very much to their own devices. But they were
well capable of looking out for themselves at this time of year, for
they found a beech wood and began fattening on the beech nuts against
the increasing chill.

Their coats were changing from tawny red to bluish gray, and their fur
thickening to keep a layer of warm air next their skins. There were
coarser hairs growing out as well, that helped to shed the rain. Their
new fur glistened in the sunshine, and the fawns raced and hurdled in
the keen air, and took running high jumps to work off their surplus
energy.

Then Fleet Foot and the winning buck returned, and with them came two of
the young bucks who had watched the battle. The six ranged happily from
cranberry bog to evergreen swamp, feasting, feasting, feasting on
mosses, lichens, anything and everything that grew, till their sides
rounded with their winter plumpness, and a layer of warm fat lay just
underneath their skins.

But with the first powdering of snow came a new danger. The hunting
season had opened, and to the huntsman our little family meant merely a
few pounds of venison for his table, and the pride of a pair of antlers
to hang his gun upon.

To the buck, however, one little bullet might in an instant rob him of
life and the keen joy of his airy speed, and all the glad wonderful
world about them, and leave his family defenseless through the long,
hard winter.

He was therefore more than wary. With the first crash of the Hired Man's
thunder stick, he led his little herd to a distant cedar swamp, where
they were soon joined by other groups as nervous as themselves at this
new peril that could pick them out and wound them from so far away.

Sometimes, even then, a member of the band would have a race for his
life.--And sometimes he never came back! But Fleet Foot and her five
pulled through in safety.

Then the thunder-stick ceased to roar in the woods about Mount Olaf. The
"season" was over, and the entire, band set about making active
preparations for the on-coming winter. Already there were chill, drizzly
days when all the world looked gray.

The former rivals now chewed their cuds together as peacefully as you
please, the bucks sleeping on one side of the thicket, the does and
their fawns on the other.

Then came a big surprise for the fawns.

It was a surprise for the Red Fox Pup as well.

----

CHAPTER XIII.--THE QUEER FEATHERS.

Frisky, the Red Fox Pup, had learned many lessons since the day he so
nearly hanged himself in the wild grape-vines.

There was the day of the first snow, for instance.