Awakening one morning, cramped and chilled because he had not lined his
bed deeply enough with leaves to keep off the cold, he peered from his
little den on the hillside with wide eyes.

The air seemed filled, as far as he could see, with tiny white feathers,
and the ground was covered with them.

He peered this way and that, wondering what kind of birds they could be
whose plumage was being shed so freely. It must be a flock large enough
to cover the whole sky, he decided, mystified.

He crept stealthily from the den, afraid, because he did not understand.

The instant his black feet touched the cold stuff, he leaped high into
the air, with a yip of fright and amazement. But when he opened his
mouth he got a taste of the falling flakes.

"Ha!" he said to himself, "that accounts for it. It is just rain turned
white."

Still, he crept warily down to Pollywog Pond for his breakfast, stepping
high, because he hated wet feet.

Arrived at the pond he stopped for a drink, when his lapping tongue came
plump against a film of something hard and shining that seemed to cover
the water. What could it be, he asked himself, lapping up a mouthful of
the snow-flakes to ease his thirst. (He wisely held them in his mouth
till they had melted, for fear of chilling his stomach.)

It was certainly very queer. Now the very trees were beginning to be
outlined in white. It made the world look quite a different place.

As for the deer, they took to a thicket of poplar, birch and spruce, on
which they could feed when the snow lay deep.

There was one other to whom winter brought a change and that was Old Man
Lynx.

Now it is very, very seldom that good luck falls right at one's feet
undeserved.

So Old Man Lynx warned himself when he came upon the muskrat in the
trap.

Of course the giant cat did not know it was a trap, as he circled around
and around the struggling rat. His green eyes gleamed hungrily in his
tawny face, and he crouched so close to the snow crust that his whiskers
dragged on the ground. His tasseled ears twitched nervously, his stubby
tail thrashed the earth and his claws were bared in a fringe across the
great awkward paws, as he crept nearer and nearer the struggling bait.

To the nostrils of the cat tribe the musky smell of the water-rat is
most tempting, and his mouth watered till he licked his jaws at thought
of the feast within such easy reach.

And yet--and yet--some spirit of the wild--some instinct of the dumb
brute who must fight to live--seemed to warn him that where man had
been, there would be trouble for him. And he circled his prey without
quite daring to close in upon it and end its squeaking protest.