Then they might get lost and freeze, should another storm catch them far
from the herd-yard. But, once having made up her mind, Fleet Foot
whistled to the fawns and started off in a series of long, graceful
bounds that carried them over one snow-bank after another.

Had they dared delay, they would have sunk to their knees in the hard,
dry snow to rest for a while and nibble the tops of some bush that
promised a few mouthfuls of supper, for their empty stomachs fairly
hurt. And if it had been freezing in the herd-yard, with its wall of
snow, and the crowding bodies that helped keep each other warm, imagine
how cold Fleet Foot's little family must have been, out on the open
hill-top! The savage wind and the snow-filled air made it all but
impossible at times to draw breath.

But worst of all was the shadow of fear that never left the doe's
anxious mother heart. The tree-trunks crackled alarmingly with the
frost, keeping her alert for enemies, and the wind tore savagely through
the brush. Of a sudden Fleet Foot's spine began to prickle! It was one
of those mysterious things that she had never been able to account for.
But it usually meant danger!

Half blindly, they had been making their way, hardly able to see in the
green-black of the darkness. But they marked their path by the darker
blackness of the clumps of spruce trees, which to their trained instinct
pointed the way like a map.

Again a chill ran down their spine and the hair raised along the backs
of their necks! Some instinct told them real danger was near--what
danger, they could not know. Rolling their startled eyes behind them,
they could see points of light gleaming at them through the darkness.

At length, through the winter night, came a long, shrill cry like that
of a hound, only wilder and more terrifying. Then came another, and a
third. It was an uncanny sound, that of the three gray wolves, watching
from behind the snowy evergreens.

Fleet Foot knew, more by instinct than experience, what they were, for
their like she had never seen before. Nor had any one in those woods
known a winter when these ravenous beasts had come down out of the
Canadian wilds. But it had been handed down from grand-sire to grand-son
that once, when the snows were uncommonly deep, and half the wild folk
starved and frozen, wolves had come down from the far North in search of
prey.

There were three of the lean gray shapes, like collie dogs, yet so much
larger and fiercer--large enough to attack even bigger game than Fleet
Foot, the doe.

Should worst come to worst, she would have no more chance with even one
such foe than a rabbit with a hound. It would all be a matter of which
could run the faster. And she had to look out for the fawns!