"Father! Come quick! I do believe there is a deer out there--no, a doe,
and two fawns!" cried the Boy of the Valley Farm, as the light from the
open door threw a long ray across the barn-yard to the pasture beyond.

"Wait! I'll get her for you!" exclaimed the Hired Man, springing for his
gun. But at the Boy's sharp command he dropped it, shame-faced.

Then from farther back in the evergreens came the spine-chilling howl of
the gray wolves, baying their lost prey.

"Wolves, my son!" exclaimed the Farmer, joining the group in the
doorway. "Wolves from Canada. It's a hard winter that has brought them
down. I don't remember seeing wolves since I was a little shaver, forty
years ago. And I expect that is what has driven the deer so close. Sh!
Come out-side." The two closed the door behind them. "We mustn't
frighten them away, or the wolves will get them, sure."

----

CHAPTER XV.--THE GRAY WOLVES.

"That's what I heard," exclaimed the Boy at the Valley Farm. "Wolves!
Imagine! I didn't suppose they ever came into these woods."

"It's been an unusual winter," his father assured him, stepping out into
the snowy barn-yard. "I saw them once when I was ten years old. But I
thought they had been driven away for good. I suppose the rabbits all
froze, up where they come from, and they got so starved they were driven
to it. They've certainly been chasing these deer."

For as their eyes became accustomed to the snowy darkness, they could
once more see the shadowy forms of Fleet Foot and the fawns by the
hay-mow.

"It must have been those wolves that I heard ten minutes back," said the
Farmer, rubbing his unmittened hands together.

"Just see how hollow these poor things look!" exclaimed the Boy. "They
must be starving. Let's go back inside, so they won't be afraid."

They met the Hired Man just starting forth with his gun. "I'm going for
those wolves," he hastened to explain.

"That's more like it," said the Farmer.

Here they were at last, beside the hay-stack, Fleet Foot and her fawns.
And as three disappointed howls arose from the woods at their back, the
famished deer turned to snatch their first ravenous mouthfuls from
between the bars of the crib. They paused in their banquet only long
enough to stare at the Hired Man, as with snow-shoes strapped to his
feet, he strode down the Old Logging Road,--Lop Ear, the Hound, at his
heels.

"Who-o-o-o!" howled the three gray wolves from the blackness of the
woods. The Hired Man raised his thunder-stick and fired--straight
between a pair of the red eyes that gleamed at him through the night.