"Yoo-o-o-o!" screamed one of the wolves, as he fell, while the cries of
the other two retreated into the forest. And Whoo Lee, the great barred
owl, could have told you that they carried their tails between their
legs. Their weird voices faded rapidly into the depths of the woods; for
wolves travel fast on their round, furry feet, which spread out beneath
them like round snow-shoes.

The Hired Man strode on down the Old Logging Road past the charred
trunks which the forest fire had swept,--standing like white ghosts now
in their snowy mantles,--and on nearly to Lone Lake. But never a sign of
the gleaming eyes of the two remaining wolves could he see, though his
ears shuddered at the weird howls that rang down the wind, and Lop Ear
bristled and growled.

Fleet Foot and the starving fawns nibbled and nibbled at the
hay-mow,--for the time, at least, safe and happy. But could they ever
get back to the herd-yard, with those wolves still at large?

For once they were in luck. The Hired Man was not the only hunter who
followed the wolves that night. Old Man Lynx, that fierce, furry fellow
with tassels on his ears and claws that could rend like steel hooks, had
also been driven down to the Valley by the winter's famine. He, too,
heard the howling of the wolves.

He heard the piercing scream of the wolf the Hired Man had shot, and he
knew what it meant. The lynx was hungry, for the storms had lasted many
days, and the rabbits and grouse hens hid away where he could not find
them. On his own wide, spreading paws, therefore, he set out over the
snow to find the wolf that had fallen. His heart was glad at the
unexpected feast in store, and he whined hungrily under his breath.

Every now and again he had to pause to bite off the icy balls that had
formed under his warm feet. But before ever the Hired Man had turned
back from Lone Lake, Old Man Lynx was peering and sniffing at the wolf
that lay dead.

One thing he did not know, though. No sooner had the two remaining
wolves raced to Lone Lake, with their tails between their legs, and the
roar of the thunder-stick in their ears, than it occurred to them that
they were still ravenously hungry. And the one that had fallen would go
far toward easing that terrible emptiness that drew their sides together
and made them desperate. (For wolves are cannibals!)

So, back the horrid beasts came, running on their furry snow-shoes--back
down the wind, which told the noses of these great wild dogs as plainly
as words that Old Man Lynx was there before them.

"Who-o-o-o," they howled wrathfully, speeding back through the
burnt-wood, over whose ghost-like trunks they leapt in the darkness so
fast that no Hired Man could have shot them had he tried.

Old Man Lynx raised his whiskered face and yowled an answering
challenge.