"Ye-ow-w-w!" he screamed at them defiantly. Then he bent his head to
snatch another mouthful of the meat he knew the wolves were on their way
to claim.

"Ye-ow-w-w!" he screamed again, as the wolf cry swept nearer. This time
he saw two pairs of red eyes gleaming in the darkness.

"I got here first, and I'll make it hot for the first one that comes
within reach of my claws," he warned them, in tones they understood
without words.

"We are two to your one!" they answered him.

Little did Old Man Lynx imagine that he had an ally so near. To him it
was merely a case of having found a meal in the wolf the Hired Man had
shot, and of having the rest of the pack demand it of him. So the giant
cat took his stand, with claws outspread over the prize, his savage face
tense with hate. His green eyes blazed at them through the darkness.

The cowardly wolves paused just out of reach, neither one of them quite
daring to begin the attack, yet willing to fall in, should the other go
first, for both were wild with hunger.

Old Man Lynx was not afraid. He meant merely to meet each wolf as he
came, and fight him off with tooth and claw--or if worst came to worst,
he could climb the nearest tree. For the power to climb is the one great
advantage that cats have over all members of the dog tribe.

Old Man Lynx himself was lean with famine, for the great storm had made
hunting all but impossible for him. Not so much as a wood-mouse had
shown its tracks on the snow for days. And there had been nothing in his
rocky den save the dried and frozen bones of dinners long since past.

To surrender his supper to-night might mean starvation and actual death
to him. But so it did to the wolves. It was to be a fight for life!

Now a lynx's claws are like so many little curved swords of poisoned
steel,--and he had five on each foot. He could dig at a wolf's
unprotected sides with his hind legs while his fore legs were clinging
to the throat in which he would try to fasten his fangs.

The gray wolves knew all this, for Old Man Lynx visited the same
Canadian wilds that they had come from. But even so, in another moment
they had taken the leap--together! And there was more lynx fur flying
than wolf fur--as Whoo Lee, the owl overhead, could have told you.

Just in the nick of time for Old Man Lynx, the Hired Man returned. When
he heard the shrill chorus of returning wolves, he had hastened back,
his great snow-shoes shuffling their way down the Old Logging Road at a
speed of which he had not known them capable.