He was not thinking of Fleet Foot and the fawns. But with the barn full
of cattle, it would never do to leave such beasts at large in the
forest. When he heard Old Man Lynx, however, the Hired Man understood
just what was going on. He had not lived in the back-woods for nothing
all his days. And he decided to draw a little nearer, in the hope of
getting another shot or two at the great gray terrors from the North.

----

CHAPTER XVI.--THE FARMER'S PLAN.

It was thus at the very moment that Old Man Lynx was striking out with
bared claws, and the gray wolves were closing in on him both at once,
that his unexpected ally reached the scene.

The Hired Man raised his gun, pointing it straight between two gleaming
eyes that shone out in the darkness. He had to do it quickly, they
jumped about so fast. Then a shot rang out on the silent night!

It singed a streak across the lynx's flank, but it felled the wolf whose
jaws were just about to clamp about his leg. A second shot nicked the
tasseled ear of the great cat fighting so desperately. But it singed the
fur on the neck of the second wolf, just in time to check him, as his
fangs were finding their way through the thick fur ruff that protected
the lynx's throat. At this second shot, the wolf, with a howl of terror,
tucked his tail between his legs and ran.

The Hired Man hesitated, then decided that the lynx had won the right to
live by his pluck. Thus Old Man Lynx was left, somewhat the worse for
the meeting, but still able to enjoy the rest of his meal; while the
Hired Man, counting the night well spent, shuffled home on his
snow-shoes. But there was still a gaunt gray wolf at large in the
forest--and Fleet Foot and the fawns had still to get back to the
herd-yard before morning found them in the haunts of man!

But strange things can happen. No sooner had the lone gray wolf fled
from the unexpected slaughter than the wind shifted, and he caught an
odor most agreeable to his palate. For his gaunt sides were so hollow
that every rib showed. It was an odor he had never before followed up.
He had not met it in his Northern wilds, but it smelled porky and
delicious.

It was on the trunk of a wild apple tree that he found the little round
bristly fellow. And he could see, by the gray light of dawn, that his
black sides bulged with fat, in a winter when all the furry folk were
lean and hungry.