That alone was puzzling. But what surprised him even more was that this
queer fellow showed no sign of fear. He was singing a little song, all
in one flat key--"Unk-wunk, unk-wunk, unk-wunk." It was a young
porcupine, one of these prickly fellows so like a tiny bear, only with
long black needles instead of fur. The gray wolf did not know how
terrible those needle-like quills can be, when once they get in one's
paw. For they are barbed like a hook on the end, and when they stick
into one, it hurts worse to pull them out than to leave them where they
are. The wood folk that lived around Lone Lake knew enough to leave
Unk-Wunk strictly alone. So, he was never afraid. But the wolf did not
know. And when the little porcupine, instead of climbing higher, out of
his reach, came lazily back down the trunk and began to gnaw the frozen
bark, the wolf thought it was easy game.

Thus, without so much as wondering what made this strange beast so
fearless, he leaped open-jawed upon the little porcupine. There was just
one howl of agony, as he clamped his jaws on those barbed quills, and it
was not the porcupine who gave it!

Whining and clawing at his tortured mouth, the wolf rolled about in the
snow-drift, choking and spluttering in mingled wrath and terror. For
Unk-Wunk's terrible barbed quills were working deeper and deeper into
the roof of his mouth. Finally he rolled over on them, and they pierced
through to the brain. That was the last of the great gray wolf that had
come down out of the North to prey upon the forest folk around the
Valley Farm.

Unk-Wunk, without in the least realizing that he had done so, had
performed a public service. And in particular, he had made it safe for
Fleet Foot and her fawns to go back home to the deer yard in the gray of
the winter dawn.

"I tell you what," said the Farmer to his son next day. "I've a plan
that I think will interest you."

"What is it?" asked the Boy, eagerly.

"Just this: I've plenty of hay this year, (more than enough for the
stock,) and I'm going to pitch a little of it out, after this, every
time the storms make it hard for the deer. I declare, I can't bear to
think of their being so starved!" And he gazed thoughtfully out over the
drifting snow, as he thought how Fleet Foot had braved everything to
reach their hay-stack.

"Hurray!" shouted the Boy. "May I pitch some out right now? Poor things,
there wasn't much they could reach between the bars," and he gazed at
the dainty footprints the fawns had made the night before.