The deep, dry snow was followed by a freeze that left a glistening crust
over every drift. Once more Fleet Foot and the rest of the deer could
run nimbly on their spreading hoofs; and young Frisky Fox and Mother
Grouse Hen and Mammy Cotton tail, the brown bunny, could foot their way
across the white expanse in search of food. For they were sure of at
least a fighting chance of getting home again.

Fleet Foot and the fawns, returning every night to the hay-stack, with a
little band whose sides were as pinched with hunger as their own, now
passed Old Man Lynx without a fear. For where there was footing that
would bear their weight, they knew they could outspeed him.

Hereafter the snow might whirl and the spruce trees bend and sway in the
wind that wailed through their tops, but the white-tailed deer of the
woods about Mount Olaf were always sure of a little hay to tide them
over the month of hunger.

"Father," said the Boy, "I've made a birthday resolution. I am going to
befriend every furred and feathered creature in these woods."

"All of them?" his Father asked. The Hired Man paused in the smoking of
his traps to listen. "You aren't going to tell us we can't do any more
trapping this winter?"

"You can trap muskrats," said the Boy thoughtfully. "And, of course,
wolves, if any more should come. And weasels--the wicked creatures! They
are only cruel, blood-thirsty ruffians who kill without need, just for
the love of killing."

"What about Old Man Lynx?"

"Well, I know he is not popular. But, after all, he's a good mouser. And
we must spare our mousers, the fox and the skunk and the big barn
owl,--for the mice destroy our grain, and I don't know anything muskrats
are good for except their fur. I'm not quite sure about the wild cat,
but he doesn't do much harm, does he, as long as there are fish to be
caught? And he is a good mouser."

"What about bears?" asked the Hired Man, with one foot on the chopping
block.

"Never do any great amount of harm," returned the Farmer. "They can
catch mice with the best of them. Besides, they're mostly vegetarians.
It isn't once in a coon's age you'll find one of these black bears that
would harm a baby, if you let him alone."

"The deer seem awfully afraid of bears."

"They have a lot more reason for being afraid of men," said the Farmer,
eyeing the Hired Man's gun.

"And porcupines? What about porcupines?" asked the latter.

"They mind their own business," spoke up the Boy. "Let them live. You'll
have plenty to do, hunting animals like wolverines and martins and mink
and weasels. But don't any one hurt my friends!"

Thus Fleet Foot and her fawns were allowed to live happily on, as season
followed season in the good green woods.