After walking a half hour, he came to a small country called the Land
of the Busy Bees. The streets were filled with people running to and fro
about their tasks. Everyone worked, everyone had something to do. Even
if one were to search with a lantern, not one idle man or one tramp
could have been found.

“I understand,” said Pinocchio at once wearily, “this is no place for
me! I was not born for work.”

But in the meantime, he began to feel hungry, for it was twenty-four
hours since he had eaten.

What was to be done?

There were only two means left to him in order to get a bite to eat. He
had either to work or to beg.

He was ashamed to beg, because his father had always preached to him
that begging should be done only by the sick or the old. He had said
that the real poor in this world, deserving of our pity and help, were
only those who, either through age or sickness, had lost the means of
earning their bread with their own hands. All others should work, and if
they didn’t, and went hungry, so much the worse for them.

Just then a man passed by, worn out and wet with perspiration, pulling,
with difficulty, two heavy carts filled with coal.

Pinocchio looked at him and, judging him by his looks to be a kind man,
said to him with eyes downcast in shame:

“Will you be so good as to give me a penny, for I am faint with hunger?”

“Not only one penny,” answered the Coal Man. “I’ll give you four if you
will help me pull these two wagons.”

“I am surprised!” answered the Marionette, very much offended. “I wish
you to know that I never have been a donkey, nor have I ever pulled a
wagon.”

“So much the better for you!” answered the Coal Man. “Then, my boy, if
you are really faint with hunger, eat two slices of your pride; and I
hope they don’t give you indigestion.”

A few minutes after, a Bricklayer passed by, carrying a pail full of
plaster on his shoulder.

“Good man, will you be kind enough to give a penny to a poor boy who is
yawning from hunger?”

“Gladly,” answered the Bricklayer. “Come with me and carry some plaster,
and instead of one penny, I’ll give you five.”

“But the plaster is heavy,” answered Pinocchio, “and the work too hard
for me.”

“If the work is too hard for you, my boy, enjoy your yawns and may they
bring you luck!”

In less than a half hour, at least twenty people passed and Pinocchio
begged of each one, but they all answered:

“Aren’t you ashamed? Instead of being a beggar in the streets, why don’t
you look for work and earn your own bread?”

Finally a little woman went by carrying two water jugs.