“My dear boy,” said the Fairy, “people who speak as you do usually end
their days either in a prison or in a hospital. A man, remember,
whether rich or poor, should do something in this world. No one can
find happiness without work. Woe betide the lazy fellow! Laziness is a
serious illness and one must cure it immediately; yes, even from early
childhood. If not, it will kill you in the end.”

These words touched Pinocchio’s heart. He lifted his eyes to his Fairy
and said seriously: “I’ll work; I’ll study; I’ll do all you tell me.
After all, the life of a Marionette has grown very tiresome to me and I
want to become a boy, no matter how hard it is. You promise that, do you
not?”

“Yes, I promise, and now it is up to you.”

CHAPTER 26

Pinocchio goes to the seashore with his friends to see the Terrible
Shark.

In the morning, bright and early, Pinocchio started for school.

Imagine what the boys said when they saw a Marionette enter the
classroom! They laughed until they cried. Everyone played tricks on him.
One pulled his hat off, another tugged at his coat, a third tried to
paint a mustache under his nose. One even attempted to tie strings to
his feet and his hands to make him dance.

For a while Pinocchio was very calm and quiet. Finally, however, he
lost all patience and turning to his tormentors, he said to them
threateningly:

“Careful, boys, I haven’t come here to be made fun of. I’ll respect you
and I want you to respect me.”

“Hurrah for Dr. Know-all! You have spoken like a printed book!” howled
the boys, bursting with laughter. One of them, more impudent than the
rest, put out his hand to pull the Marionette’s nose.

But he was not quick enough, for Pinocchio stretched his leg under the
table and kicked him hard on the shin.

“Oh, what hard feet!” cried the boy, rubbing the spot where the
Marionette had kicked him.

“And what elbows! They are even harder than the feet!” shouted another
one, who, because of some other trick, had received a blow in the
stomach.

With that kick and that blow Pinocchio gained everybody’s favor.
Everyone admired him, danced attendance upon him, petted and caressed
him.

As the days passed into weeks, even the teacher praised him, for he saw
him attentive, hard working, and wide awake, always the first to come in
the morning, and the last to leave when school was over.

Pinocchio’s only fault was that he had too many friends. Among these
were many well-known rascals, who cared not a jot for study or for
success.

The teacher warned him each day, and even the good Fairy repeated to him
many times:

“Take care, Pinocchio! Those bad companions will sooner or later make
you lose your love for study. Some day they will lead you astray.”