“There’s no such danger,” answered the Marionette, shrugging his
shoulders and pointing to his forehead as if to say, “I’m too wise.”

So it happened that one day, as he was walking to school, he met some
boys who ran up to him and said:

“Have you heard the news?”

“No!”

“A Shark as big as a mountain has been seen near the shore.”

“Really? I wonder if it could be the same one I heard of when my father
was drowned?”

“We are going to see it. Are you coming?”

“No, not I. I must go to school.”

“What do you care about school? You can go there tomorrow. With a lesson
more or less, we are always the same donkeys.”

“And what will the teacher say?”

“Let him talk. He is paid to grumble all day long.”

“And my mother?”

“Mothers don’t know anything,” answered those scamps.

“Do you know what I’ll do?” said Pinocchio. “For certain reasons of
mine, I, too, want to see that Shark; but I’ll go after school. I can
see him then as well as now.”

“Poor simpleton!” cried one of the boys. “Do you think that a fish of
that size will stand there waiting for you? He turns and off he goes,
and no one will ever be the wiser.”

“How long does it take from here to the shore?” asked the Marionette.
“One hour there and back.”

“Very well, then. Let’s see who gets there first!” cried Pinocchio.

At the signal, the little troop, with books under their arms, dashed
across the fields. Pinocchio led the way, running as if on wings, the
others following as fast as they could.

Now and again, he looked back and, seeing his followers hot and tired,
and with tongues hanging out, he laughed out heartily. Unhappy boy! If
he had only known then the dreadful things that were to happen to him on
account of his disobedience!

CHAPTER 27

The great battle between Pinocchio and his playmates. One is wounded.
Pinocchio is arrested.

Going like the wind, Pinocchio took but a very short time to reach the
shore. He glanced all about him, but there was no sign of a Shark. The
sea was as smooth as glass.

“Hey there, boys! Where’s that Shark?” he asked, turning to his
playmates.

“He may have gone for his breakfast,” said one of them, laughing.

“Or, perhaps, he went to bed for a little nap,” said another, laughing
also.

From the answers and the laughter which followed them, Pinocchio
understood that the boys had played a trick on him.

“What now?” he said angrily to them. “What’s the joke?”

“Oh, the joke’s on you!” cried his tormentors, laughing more heartily
than ever, and dancing gayly around the Marionette.

“And that is--?”

“That we have made you stay out of school to come with us. Aren’t you
ashamed of being such a goody-goody, and of studying so hard? You never
have a bit of enjoyment.”

“And what is it to you, if I do study?”