“Keep quiet, ugly Gab! It would be better for you to chew a few cough
drops to get rid of that cold you have. Go to bed and sleep! You will
feel better in the morning.”

In the meantime, the boys, having used all their books, looked around
for new ammunition. Seeing Pinocchio’s bundle lying idle near-by, they
somehow managed to get hold of it.

One of the books was a very large volume, an arithmetic text, heavily
bound in leather. It was Pinocchio’s pride. Among all his books, he
liked that one the best.

Thinking it would make a fine missile, one of the boys took hold of it
and threw it with all his strength at Pinocchio’s head. But instead of
hitting the Marionette, the book struck one of the other boys, who, as
pale as a ghost, cried out faintly: “Oh, Mother, help! I’m dying!” and
fell senseless to the ground.

At the sight of that pale little corpse, the boys were so frightened
that they turned tail and ran. In a few moments, all had disappeared.

All except Pinocchio. Although scared to death by the horror of what
had been done, he ran to the sea and soaked his handkerchief in the cool
water and with it bathed the head of his poor little schoolmate. Sobbing
bitterly, he called to him, saying:

“Eugene! My poor Eugene! Open your eyes and look at me! Why don’t you
answer? I was not the one who hit you, you know. Believe me, I didn’t
do it. Open your eyes, Eugene? If you keep them shut, I’ll die, too.
Oh, dear me, how shall I ever go home now? How shall I ever look at my
little mother again? What will happen to me? Where shall I go? Where
shall I hide? Oh, how much better it would have been, a thousand times
better, if only I had gone to school! Why did I listen to those boys?
They always were a bad influence! And to think that the teacher had told
me--and my mother, too!--‘Beware of bad company!’ That’s what she said.
But I’m stubborn and proud. I listen, but always I do as I wish. And
then I pay. I’ve never had a moment’s peace since I’ve been born! Oh,
dear! What will become of me? What will become of me?”

Pinocchio went on crying and moaning and beating his head. Again and
again he called to his little friend, when suddenly he heard heavy steps
approaching.

He looked up and saw two tall Carabineers near him.

“What are you doing stretched out on the ground?” they asked Pinocchio.

“I’m helping this schoolfellow of mine.”

“Has he fainted?”

“I should say so,” said one of the Carabineers, bending to look at
Eugene. “This boy has been wounded on the temple. Who has hurt him?”

“Not I,” stammered the Marionette, who had hardly a breath left in his
whole body.

“If it wasn’t you, who was it, then?”

“Not I,” repeated Pinocchio.

“And with what was he wounded?”