Imagine to yourselves a little, fat man, much wider than he was long,
round and shiny as a ball of butter, with a face beaming like an apple,
a little mouth that always smiled, and a voice small and wheedling like
that of a cat begging for food.

No sooner did any boy see him than he fell in love with him, and nothing
satisfied him but to be allowed to ride in his wagon to that lovely
place called the Land of Toys.

In fact the wagon was so closely packed with boys of all ages that it
looked like a box of sardines. They were uncomfortable, they were piled
one on top of the other, they could hardly breathe; yet not one word of
complaint was heard. The thought that in a few hours they would reach a
country where there were no schools, no books, no teachers, made these
boys so happy that they felt neither hunger, nor thirst, nor sleep, nor
discomfort.

No sooner had the wagon stopped than the little fat man turned to
Lamp-Wick. With bows and smiles, he asked in a wheedling tone:

“Tell me, my fine boy, do you also want to come to my wonderful
country?”

“Indeed I do.”

“But I warn you, my little dear, there’s no more room in the wagon. It
is full.”

“Never mind,” answered Lamp-Wick. “If there’s no room inside, I can sit
on the top of the coach.”

And with one leap, he perched himself there.

“What about you, my love?” asked the Little Man, turning politely to
Pinocchio. “What are you going to do? Will you come with us, or do you
stay here?”

“I stay here,” answered Pinocchio. “I want to return home, as I prefer
to study and to succeed in life.”

“May that bring you luck!”

“Pinocchio!” Lamp-Wick called out. “Listen to me. Come with us and we’ll
always be happy.”

“No, no, no!”

“Come with us and we’ll always be happy,” cried four other voices from
the wagon.

“Come with us and we’ll always be happy,” shouted the one hundred and
more boys in the wagon, all together. “And if I go with you, what will
my good Fairy say?” asked the Marionette, who was beginning to waver and
weaken in his good resolutions.

“Don’t worry so much. Only think that we are going to a land where
we shall be allowed to make all the racket we like from morning till
night.”

Pinocchio did not answer, but sighed deeply once--twice--a third time.
Finally, he said:

“Make room for me. I want to go, too!”

“The seats are all filled,” answered the Little Man, “but to show you
how much I think of you, take my place as coachman.”

“And you?”

“I’ll walk.”

“No, indeed. I could not permit such a thing. I much prefer riding one
of these donkeys,” cried Pinocchio.