“But where is that blessed shore?” asked the little old man, more and
more worried as he tried to pierce the faraway shadows. “Here I am
searching on all sides and I see nothing but sea and sky.”

“I see the shore,” said the Marionette. “Remember, Father, that I am
like a cat. I see better at night than by day.”

Poor Pinocchio pretended to be peaceful and contented, but he was
far from that. He was beginning to feel discouraged, his strength was
leaving him, and his breathing was becoming more and more labored. He
felt he could not go on much longer, and the shore was still far away.

He swam a few more strokes. Then he turned to Geppetto and cried out
weakly:

“Help me, Father! Help, for I am dying!”

Father and son were really about to drown when they heard a voice like a
guitar out of tune call from the sea:

“What is the trouble?”

“It is I and my poor father.”

“I know the voice. You are Pinocchio.”

“Exactly. And you?”

“I am the Tunny, your companion in the Shark’s stomach.”

“And how did you escape?”

“I imitated your example. You are the one who showed me the way and
after you went, I followed.”

“Tunny, you arrived at the right moment! I implore you, for the love you
bear your children, the little Tunnies, to help us, or we are lost!”

“With great pleasure indeed. Hang onto my tail, both of you, and let me
lead you. In a twinkling you will be safe on land.”

Geppetto and Pinocchio, as you can easily imagine, did not refuse the
invitation; indeed, instead of hanging onto the tail, they thought it
better to climb on the Tunny’s back.

“Are we too heavy?” asked Pinocchio.

“Heavy? Not in the least. You are as light as sea-shells,” answered the
Tunny, who was as large as a two-year-old horse.

As soon as they reached the shore, Pinocchio was the first to jump to
the ground to help his old father. Then he turned to the fish and said
to him:

“Dear friend, you have saved my father, and I have not enough words
with which to thank you! Allow me to embrace you as a sign of my eternal
gratitude.”

The Tunny stuck his nose out of the water and Pinocchio knelt on the
sand and kissed him most affectionately on his cheek. At this warm
greeting, the poor Tunny, who was not used to such tenderness, wept
like a child. He felt so embarrassed and ashamed that he turned quickly,
plunged into the sea, and disappeared.

In the meantime day had dawned.

Pinocchio offered his arm to Geppetto, who was so weak he could hardly
stand, and said to him:

“Lean on my arm, dear Father, and let us go. We will walk very, very
slowly, and if we feel tired we can rest by the wayside.”

“And where are we going?” asked Geppetto.