“I am going to spare both the father and the son. I have only wanted to
remind you of the trick you long ago played upon me, to teach you that
in this world of ours we must be kind and courteous to others, if we
want to find kindness and courtesy in our own days of trouble.”

“You are right, little Cricket, you are more than right, and I shall
remember the lesson you have taught me. But will you tell how you
succeeded in buying this pretty little cottage?”

“This cottage was given to me yesterday by a little Goat with blue
hair.”

“And where did the Goat go?” asked Pinocchio.

“I don’t know.”

“And when will she come back?”

“She will never come back. Yesterday she went away bleating sadly, and
it seemed to me she said: ‘Poor Pinocchio, I shall never see him again.
. .the Shark must have eaten him by this time.’”

“Were those her real words? Then it was she--it was--my dear little
Fairy,” cried out Pinocchio, sobbing bitterly. After he had cried a
long time, he wiped his eyes and then he made a bed of straw for old
Geppetto. He laid him on it and said to the Talking Cricket:

“Tell me, little Cricket, where shall I find a glass of milk for my poor
Father?”

“Three fields away from here lives Farmer John. He has some cows. Go
there and he will give you what you want.”

Pinocchio ran all the way to Farmer John’s house. The Farmer said to
him:

“How much milk do you want?”

“I want a full glass.”

“A full glass costs a penny. First give me the penny.”

“I have no penny,” answered Pinocchio, sad and ashamed.

“Very bad, my Marionette,” answered the Farmer, “very bad. If you have
no penny, I have no milk.”

“Too bad,” said Pinocchio and started to go.

“Wait a moment,” said Farmer John. “Perhaps we can come to terms. Do you
know how to draw water from a well?”

“I can try.”

“Then go to that well you see yonder and draw one hundred bucketfuls of
water.”

“Very well.”

“After you have finished, I shall give you a glass of warm sweet milk.”

“I am satisfied.”

Farmer John took the Marionette to the well and showed him how to draw
the water. Pinocchio set to work as well as he knew how, but long before
he had pulled up the one hundred buckets, he was tired out and dripping
with perspiration. He had never worked so hard in his life.

“Until today,” said the Farmer, “my donkey has drawn the water for me,
but now that poor animal is dying.”

“Will you take me to see him?” said Pinocchio.

“Gladly.”