He ran out of the house and up the road to the village, laughing and
singing. Suddenly he heard his name called, and looking around to see
whence the voice came, he noticed a large snail crawling out of some
bushes.

“Don’t you recognize me?” said the Snail.

“Yes and no.”

“Do you remember the Snail that lived with the Fairy with Azure Hair? Do
you not remember how she opened the door for you one night and gave you
something to eat?”

“I remember everything,” cried Pinocchio. “Answer me quickly, pretty
Snail, where have you left my Fairy? What is she doing? Has she forgiven
me? Does she remember me? Does she still love me? Is she very far away
from here? May I see her?”

At all these questions, tumbling out one after another, the Snail
answered, calm as ever:

“My dear Pinocchio, the Fairy is lying ill in a hospital.”

“In a hospital?”

“Yes, indeed. She has been stricken with trouble and illness, and she
hasn’t a penny left with which to buy a bite of bread.”

“Really? Oh, how sorry I am! My poor, dear little Fairy! If I had a
million I should run to her with it! But I have only fifty pennies. Here
they are. I was just going to buy some clothes. Here, take them, little
Snail, and give them to my good Fairy.”

“What about the new clothes?”

“What does that matter? I should like to sell these rags I have on to
help her more. Go, and hurry. Come back here within a couple of days
and I hope to have more money for you! Until today I have worked for my
father. Now I shall have to work for my mother also. Good-by, and I hope
to see you soon.”

The Snail, much against her usual habit, began to run like a lizard
under a summer sun.

When Pinocchio returned home, his father asked him:

“And where is the new suit?”

“I couldn’t find one to fit me. I shall have to look again some other
day.”

That night, Pinocchio, instead of going to bed at ten o’clock waited
until midnight, and instead of making eight baskets, he made sixteen.

After that he went to bed and fell asleep. As he slept, he dreamed of
his Fairy, beautiful, smiling, and happy, who kissed him and said to
him, “Bravo, Pinocchio! In reward for your kind heart, I forgive you for
all your old mischief. Boys who love and take good care of their parents
when they are old and sick, deserve praise even though they may not be
held up as models of obedience and good behavior. Keep on doing so well,
and you will be happy.”

At that very moment, Pinocchio awoke and opened wide his eyes.