“Oh, I don’t mean just the tree; of course it’s lovely--yes, it’s
_radiantly_ lovely--it blooms as if it meant it--but I meant everything,
the garden and the orchard and the brook and the woods, the whole big
dear world. Don’t you feel as if you just loved the world on a morning
like this? And I can hear the brook laughing all the way up here.
Have you ever noticed what cheerful things brooks are? They’re always
laughing. Even in winter-time I’ve heard them under the ice. I’m so glad
there’s a brook near Green Gables. Perhaps you think it doesn’t make any
difference to me when you’re not going to keep me, but it does. I shall
always like to remember that there is a brook at Green Gables even if
I never see it again. If there wasn’t a brook I’d be _haunted_ by the
uncomfortable feeling that there ought to be one. I’m not in the depths
of despair this morning. I never can be in the morning. Isn’t it a
splendid thing that there are mornings? But I feel very sad. I’ve just
been imagining that it was really me you wanted after all and that I was
to stay here for ever and ever. It was a great comfort while it lasted.
But the worst of imagining things is that the time comes when you have
to stop and that hurts.”

“You’d better get dressed and come down-stairs and never mind your
imaginings,” said Marilla as soon as she could get a word in edgewise.
“Breakfast is waiting. Wash your face and comb your hair. Leave the
window up and turn your bedclothes back over the foot of the bed. Be as
smart as you can.”

Anne could evidently be smart to some purpose for she was down-stairs
in ten minutes’ time, with her clothes neatly on, her hair brushed and
braided, her face washed, and a comfortable consciousness pervading her
soul that she had fulfilled all Marilla’s requirements. As a matter of
fact, however, she had forgotten to turn back the bedclothes.

“I’m pretty hungry this morning,” she announced as she slipped into the
chair Marilla placed for her. “The world doesn’t seem such a howling
wilderness as it did last night. I’m so glad it’s a sunshiny morning.
But I like rainy mornings real well, too. All sorts of mornings are
interesting, don’t you think? You don’t know what’s going to happen
through the day, and there’s so much scope for imagination. But I’m
glad it’s not rainy today because it’s easier to be cheerful and bear
up under affliction on a sunshiny day. I feel that I have a good deal
to bear up under. It’s all very well to read about sorrows and imagine
yourself living through them heroically, but it’s not so nice when you
really come to have them, is it?”

“For pity’s sake hold your tongue,” said Marilla. “You talk entirely too
much for a little girl.”