“Mr. and Mrs. Thomas moved away from Bolingbroke to Marysville, and I
lived with them until I was eight years old. I helped look after the
Thomas children--there were four of them younger than me--and I can tell
you they took a lot of looking after. Then Mr. Thomas was killed
falling under a train and his mother offered to take Mrs. Thomas and the
children, but she didn’t want me. Mrs. Thomas was at _her_ wits’ end, so
she said, what to do with me. Then Mrs. Hammond from up the river came
down and said she’d take me, seeing I was handy with children, and
I went up the river to live with her in a little clearing among the
stumps. It was a very lonesome place. I’m sure I could never have
lived there if I hadn’t had an imagination. Mr. Hammond worked a little
sawmill up there, and Mrs. Hammond had eight children. She had twins
three times. I like babies in moderation, but twins three times in
succession is _too much_. I told Mrs. Hammond so firmly, when the last
pair came. I used to get so dreadfully tired carrying them about.

“I lived up river with Mrs. Hammond over two years, and then Mr. Hammond
died and Mrs. Hammond broke up housekeeping. She divided her children
among her relatives and went to the States. I had to go to the asylum
at Hopeton, because nobody would take me. They didn’t want me at the
asylum, either; they said they were overcrowded as it was. But they had
to take me and I was there four months until Mrs. Spencer came.”

Anne finished up with another sigh, of relief this time. Evidently
she did not like talking about her experiences in a world that had not
wanted her.

“Did you ever go to school?” demanded Marilla, turning the sorrel mare
down the shore road.

“Not a great deal. I went a little the last year I stayed with Mrs.
Thomas. When I went up river we were so far from a school that I
couldn’t walk it in winter and there was vacation in summer, so I could
only go in the spring and fall. But of course I went while I was at
the asylum. I can read pretty well and I know ever so many pieces of
poetry off by heart--‘The Battle of Hohenlinden’ and ‘Edinburgh after
Flodden,’ and ‘Bingen on the Rhine,’ and lots of the ‘Lady of the Lake’
and most of ‘The Seasons,’ by James Thompson. Don’t you just love
poetry that gives you a crinkly feeling up and down your back? There
is a piece in the Fifth Reader--‘The Downfall of Poland’--that is just
full of thrills. Of course, I wasn’t in the Fifth Reader--I was only in
the Fourth--but the big girls used to lend me theirs to read.”

“Were those women--Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Hammond--good to you?” asked
Marilla, looking at Anne out of the corner of her eye.