“Well, I’ll do my best,” promised Anne, burying her face in Marilla’s
lap. “Gracious heavenly Father--that’s the way the ministers say it in
church, so I suppose it’s all right in private prayer, isn’t it?” she
interjected, lifting her head for a moment. “Gracious heavenly Father,
I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining
Waters and Bonny and the Snow Queen. I’m really extremely grateful for
them. And that’s all the blessings I can think of just now to thank
Thee for. As for the things I want, they’re so numerous that it would
take a great deal of time to name them all, so I will only mention the
two most important. Please let me stay at Green Gables; and please let
me be good-looking when I grow up. I remain,

“Yours respectfully,
                       Anne Shirley.

“There, did I do all right?” she asked eagerly, getting up. “I could
have made it much more flowery if I’d had a little more time to think it
over.”

Poor Marilla was only preserved from complete collapse by remembering
that it was not irreverence, but simply spiritual ignorance on the part
of Anne that was responsible for this extraordinary petition. She tucked
the child up in bed, mentally vowing that she should be taught a prayer
the very next day, and was leaving the room with the light when Anne
called her back.

“I’ve just thought of it now. I should have said ‘Amen’ in place
of ‘yours respectfully,’ shouldn’t I?--the way the ministers do. I’d
forgotten it, but I felt a prayer should be finished off in some way, so
I put in the other. Do you suppose it will make any difference?”

“I--I don’t suppose it will,” said Marilla. “Go to sleep now like a good
child. Good night.”

“I can say good night tonight with a clear conscience,” said Anne,
cuddling luxuriously down among her pillows.

Marilla retreated to the kitchen, set the candle firmly on the table,
and glared at Matthew.

“Matthew Cuthbert, it’s about time somebody adopted that child and
taught her something. She’s next door to a perfect heathen. Will you
believe that she never said a prayer in her life till tonight? I’ll
send to the manse tomorrow and borrow the Peep of the Day series,
that’s what I’ll do. And she shall go to Sunday-school just as soon as
I can get some suitable clothes made for her. I foresee that I shall
have my hands full. Well, well, we can’t get through this world without
our share of trouble. I’ve had a pretty easy life of it so far, but my
time has come at last and I suppose I’ll just have to make the best of
it.”

CHAPTER VIII. Anne’s Bringing-up Is Begun