When Marilla went out that evening to bring the cows from the back
pasture, Matthew, who had been hanging about the barns and watching,
slipped into the house with the air of a burglar and crept upstairs. As
a general thing Matthew gravitated between the kitchen and the little
bedroom off the hall where he slept; once in a while he ventured
uncomfortably into the parlor or sitting room when the minister came to
tea. But he had never been upstairs in his own house since the spring he
helped Marilla paper the spare bedroom, and that was four years ago.

He tiptoed along the hall and stood for several minutes outside the
door of the east gable before he summoned courage to tap on it with his
fingers and then open the door to peep in.

Anne was sitting on the yellow chair by the window gazing mournfully out
into the garden. Very small and unhappy she looked, and Matthew’s heart
smote him. He softly closed the door and tiptoed over to her.

“Anne,” he whispered, as if afraid of being overheard, “how are you
making it, Anne?”

Anne smiled wanly.

“Pretty well. I imagine a good deal, and that helps to pass the time. Of
course, it’s rather lonesome. But then, I may as well get used to that.”

Anne smiled again, bravely facing the long years of solitary
imprisonment before her.

Matthew recollected that he must say what he had come to say without
loss of time, lest Marilla return prematurely. “Well now, Anne, don’t
you think you’d better do it and have it over with?” he whispered.
“It’ll have to be done sooner or later, you know, for Marilla’s a
dreadful determined woman--dreadful determined, Anne. Do it right off,
I say, and have it over.”

“Do you mean apologize to Mrs. Lynde?”

“Yes--apologize--that’s the very word,” said Matthew eagerly. “Just
smooth it over so to speak. That’s what I was trying to get at.”

“I suppose I could do it to oblige you,” said Anne thoughtfully. “It
would be true enough to say I am sorry, because I _am_ sorry now. I wasn’t
a bit sorry last night. I was mad clear through, and I stayed mad all
night. I know I did because I woke up three times and I was just
furious every time. But this morning it was over. I wasn’t in a temper
anymore--and it left a dreadful sort of goneness, too. I felt so ashamed
of myself. But I just couldn’t think of going and telling Mrs. Lynde
so. It would be so humiliating. I made up my mind I’d stay shut up here
forever rather than do that. But still--I’d do anything for you--if you
really want me to--”

“Well now, of course I do. It’s terrible lonesome downstairs without
you. Just go and smooth things over--that’s a good girl.”

“Very well,” said Anne resignedly. “I’ll tell Marilla as soon as she
comes in I’ve repented.”