Anne sat down on the rocker with a long sigh, kissed one of Bonny’s
leaves, and waved her hand to a blossoming fuchsia.

“They might have been lonesome while I was away,” she explained. “And
now about the Sunday-school. I behaved well, just as you told me. Mrs.
Lynde was gone, but I went right on myself. I went into the church, with
a lot of other little girls, and I sat in the corner of a pew by the
window while the opening exercises went on. Mr. Bell made an awfully
long prayer. I would have been dreadfully tired before he got through
if I hadn’t been sitting by that window. But it looked right out on the
Lake of Shining Waters, so I just gazed at that and imagined all sorts
of splendid things.”

“You shouldn’t have done anything of the sort. You should have listened
to Mr. Bell.”

“But he wasn’t talking to me,” protested Anne. “He was talking to God
and he didn’t seem to be very much interested in it, either. I think
he thought God was too far off though. There was a long row of white
birches hanging over the lake and the sunshine fell down through them,
‘way, ‘way down, deep into the water. Oh, Marilla, it was like a
beautiful dream! It gave me a thrill and I just said, ‘Thank you for
it, God,’ two or three times.”

“Not out loud, I hope,” said Marilla anxiously.

“Oh, no, just under my breath. Well, Mr. Bell did get through at last
and they told me to go into the classroom with Miss Rogerson’s class.
There were nine other girls in it. They all had puffed sleeves. I tried
to imagine mine were puffed, too, but I couldn’t. Why couldn’t I? It was
as easy as could be to imagine they were puffed when I was alone in
the east gable, but it was awfully hard there among the others who had
really truly puffs.”

“You shouldn’t have been thinking about your sleeves in Sunday-school.
You should have been attending to the lesson. I hope you knew it.”

“Oh, yes; and I answered a lot of questions. Miss Rogerson asked ever so
many. I don’t think it was fair for her to do all the asking. There were
lots I wanted to ask her, but I didn’t like to because I didn’t think
she was a kindred spirit. Then all the other little girls recited a
paraphrase. She asked me if I knew any. I told her I didn’t, but I could
recite, ‘The Dog at His Master’s Grave’ if she liked. That’s in the
Third Royal Reader. It isn’t a really truly religious piece of poetry,
but it’s so sad and melancholy that it might as well be. She said it
wouldn’t do and she told me to learn the nineteenth paraphrase for next
Sunday. I read it over in church afterwards and it’s splendid. There are
two lines in particular that just thrill me.