“I don’t know what to do with her,” said Marilla. “She declares she
won’t go back to school. I never saw a child so worked up. I’ve been
expecting trouble ever since she started to school. I knew things were
going too smooth to last. She’s so high strung. What would you advise,
Rachel?”

“Well, since you’ve asked my advice, Marilla,” said Mrs. Lynde
amiably--Mrs. Lynde dearly loved to be asked for advice--“I’d just
humor her a little at first, that’s what I’d do. It’s my belief that
Mr. Phillips was in the wrong. Of course, it doesn’t do to say so to the
children, you know. And of course he did right to punish her yesterday
for giving way to temper. But today it was different. The others who
were late should have been punished as well as Anne, that’s what. And I
don’t believe in making the girls sit with the boys for punishment. It
isn’t modest. Tillie Boulter was real indignant. She took Anne’s part
right through and said all the scholars did too. Anne seems real popular
among them, somehow. I never thought she’d take with them so well.”

“Then you really think I’d better let her stay home,” said Marilla in
amazement.

“Yes. That is I wouldn’t say school to her again until she said it
herself. Depend upon it, Marilla, she’ll cool off in a week or so and
be ready enough to go back of her own accord, that’s what, while, if
you were to make her go back right off, dear knows what freak or tantrum
she’d take next and make more trouble than ever. The less fuss made the
better, in my opinion. She won’t miss much by not going to school, as
far as _that_ goes. Mr. Phillips isn’t any good at all as a teacher. The
order he keeps is scandalous, that’s what, and he neglects the young
fry and puts all his time on those big scholars he’s getting ready for
Queen’s. He’d never have got the school for another year if his uncle
hadn’t been a trustee--_the_ trustee, for he just leads the other two
around by the nose, that’s what. I declare, I don’t know what education
in this Island is coming to.”

Mrs. Rachel shook her head, as much as to say if she were only at the
head of the educational system of the Province things would be much
better managed.

Marilla took Mrs. Rachel’s advice and not another word was said to Anne
about going back to school. She learned her lessons at home, did her
chores, and played with Diana in the chilly purple autumn twilights;
but when she met Gilbert Blythe on the road or encountered him in
Sunday-school she passed him by with an icy contempt that was no whit
thawed by his evident desire to appease her. Even Diana’s efforts as
a peacemaker were of no avail. Anne had evidently made up her mind to
hate Gilbert Blythe to the end of life.