“Well, anyway, when I am grown up,” said Anne decidedly, “I’m always
going to talk to little girls as if they were too, and I’ll never laugh
when they use big words. I know from sorrowful experience how that hurts
one’s feelings. After tea Diana and I made taffy. The taffy wasn’t very
good, I suppose because neither Diana nor I had ever made any before.
Diana left me to stir it while she buttered the plates and I forgot and
let it burn; and then when we set it out on the platform to cool the cat
walked over one plate and that had to be thrown away. But the making of
it was splendid fun. Then when I came home Mrs. Barry asked me to come
over as often as I could and Diana stood at the window and threw kisses
to me all the way down to Lover’s Lane. I assure you, Marilla, that I
feel like praying tonight and I’m going to think out a special brand-new
prayer in honor of the occasion.”

CHAPTER XIX. A Concert, a Catastrophe, and a Confession

MARILLA, can I go over to see Diana just for a minute?” asked Anne,
running breathlessly down from the east gable one February evening.

“I don’t see what you want to be traipsing about after dark for,” said
Marilla shortly. “You and Diana walked home from school together and
then stood down there in the snow for half an hour more, your tongues
going the whole blessed time, clickety-clack. So I don’t think you’re
very badly off to see her again.”

“But she wants to see me,” pleaded Anne. “She has something very
important to tell me.”

“How do you know she has?”

“Because she just signaled to me from her window. We have arranged a
way to signal with our candles and cardboard. We set the candle on the
window sill and make flashes by passing the cardboard back and forth. So
many flashes mean a certain thing. It was my idea, Marilla.”

“I’ll warrant you it was,” said Marilla emphatically. “And the next
thing you’ll be setting fire to the curtains with your signaling
nonsense.”

“Oh, we’re very careful, Marilla. And it’s so interesting. Two flashes
mean, ‘Are you there?’ Three mean ‘yes’ and four ‘no.’ Five mean, ‘Come
over as soon as possible, because I have something important to reveal.’
Diana has just signaled five flashes, and I’m really suffering to know
what it is.”

“Well, you needn’t suffer any longer,” said Marilla sarcastically. “You
can go, but you’re to be back here in just ten minutes, remember that.”

Anne did remember it and was back in the stipulated time, although
probably no mortal will ever know just what it cost her to confine the
discussion of Diana’s important communication within the limits of ten
minutes. But at least she had made good use of them.