“Don’t frighten me any more than I am frightened,” implored Anne. “I’d
rather walk up to a cannon’s mouth. But I’ve got to do it, Diana. It
was my fault and I’ve got to confess. I’ve had practice in confessing,
fortunately.”

“Well, she’s in the room,” said Diana. “You can go in if you want to. I
wouldn’t dare. And I don’t believe you’ll do a bit of good.”

With this encouragement Anne bearded the lion in its den--that is to
say, walked resolutely up to the sitting-room door and knocked faintly.
A sharp “Come in” followed.

Miss Josephine Barry, thin, prim, and rigid, was knitting fiercely by
the fire, her wrath quite unappeased and her eyes snapping through her
gold-rimmed glasses. She wheeled around in her chair, expecting to see
Diana, and beheld a white-faced girl whose great eyes were brimmed up
with a mixture of desperate courage and shrinking terror.

“Who are you?” demanded Miss Josephine Barry, without ceremony.

“I’m Anne of Green Gables,” said the small visitor tremulously, clasping
her hands with her characteristic gesture, “and I’ve come to confess, if
you please.”

“Confess what?”

“That it was all my fault about jumping into bed on you last night. I
suggested it. Diana would never have thought of such a thing, I am sure.
Diana is a very ladylike girl, Miss Barry. So you must see how unjust it
is to blame her.”

“Oh, I must, hey? I rather think Diana did her share of the jumping at
least. Such carryings on in a respectable house!”

“But we were only in fun,” persisted Anne. “I think you ought to forgive
us, Miss Barry, now that we’ve apologized. And anyhow, please forgive
Diana and let her have her music lessons. Diana’s heart is set on her
music lessons, Miss Barry, and I know too well what it is to set your
heart on a thing and not get it. If you must be cross with anyone, be
cross with me. I’ve been so used in my early days to having people cross
at me that I can endure it much better than Diana can.”

Much of the snap had gone out of the old lady’s eyes by this time
and was replaced by a twinkle of amused interest. But she still said
severely:

“I don’t think it is any excuse for you that you were only in fun.
Little girls never indulged in that kind of fun when I was young. You
don’t know what it is to be awakened out of a sound sleep, after a long
and arduous journey, by two great girls coming bounce down on you.”