“Nobody,” confessed Anne. “Diana and I just imagined the wood was
haunted. All the places around here are so--so--_commonplace_. We just got
this up for our own amusement. We began it in April. A haunted wood is
so very romantic, Marilla. We chose the spruce grove because it’s so
gloomy. Oh, we have imagined the most harrowing things. There’s a white
lady walks along the brook just about this time of the night and wrings
her hands and utters wailing cries. She appears when there is to be a
death in the family. And the ghost of a little murdered child haunts the
corner up by Idlewild; it creeps up behind you and lays its cold fingers
on your hand--so. Oh, Marilla, it gives me a shudder to think of it. And
there’s a headless man stalks up and down the path and skeletons glower
at you between the boughs. Oh, Marilla, I wouldn’t go through the
Haunted Wood after dark now for anything. I’d be sure that white things
would reach out from behind the trees and grab me.”

“Did ever anyone hear the like!” ejaculated Marilla, who had
listened in dumb amazement. “Anne Shirley, do you mean to tell me you
believe all that wicked nonsense of your own imagination?”

“Not believe _exactly_,” faltered Anne. “At least, I don’t believe it in
daylight. But after dark, Marilla, it’s different. That is when ghosts
walk.”

“There are no such things as ghosts, Anne.”

“Oh, but there are, Marilla,” cried Anne eagerly. “I know people who
have seen them. And they are respectable people. Charlie Sloane says
that his grandmother saw his grandfather driving home the cows one night
after he’d been buried for a year. You know Charlie Sloane’s grandmother
wouldn’t tell a story for anything. She’s a very religious woman. And
Mrs. Thomas’s father was pursued home one night by a lamb of fire with
its head cut off hanging by a strip of skin. He said he knew it was the
spirit of his brother and that it was a warning he would die within nine
days. He didn’t, but he died two years after, so you see it was really
true. And Ruby Gillis says--”

“Anne Shirley,” interrupted Marilla firmly, “I never want to hear you
talking in this fashion again. I’ve had my doubts about that imagination
of yours right along, and if this is going to be the outcome of it, I
won’t countenance any such doings. You’ll go right over to Barry’s, and
you’ll go through that spruce grove, just for a lesson and a warning to
you. And never let me hear a word out of your head about haunted woods
again.”