“Nobody else asked any except Ruby Gillis, and she asked if there was
to be a Sunday-school picnic this summer. I didn’t think that was a
very proper question to ask because it hadn’t any connection with the
lesson--the lesson was about Daniel in the lions’ den--but Mrs. Allan
just smiled and said she thought there would be. Mrs. Allan has a
lovely smile; she has such _exquisite_ dimples in her cheeks. I wish I had
dimples in my cheeks, Marilla. I’m not half so skinny as I was when I
came here, but I have no dimples yet. If I had perhaps I could influence
people for good. Mrs. Allan said we ought always to try to influence
other people for good. She talked so nice about everything. I never knew
before that religion was such a cheerful thing. I always thought it
was kind of melancholy, but Mrs. Allan’s isn’t, and I’d like to be a
Christian if I could be one like her. I wouldn’t want to be one like Mr.
Superintendent Bell.”

“It’s very naughty of you to speak so about Mr. Bell,” said Marilla
severely. “Mr. Bell is a real good man.”

“Oh, of course he’s good,” agreed Anne, “but he doesn’t seem to get any
comfort out of it. If I could be good I’d dance and sing all day because
I was glad of it. I suppose Mrs. Allan is too old to dance and sing and
of course it wouldn’t be dignified in a minister’s wife. But I can just
feel she’s glad she’s a Christian and that she’d be one even if she
could get to heaven without it.”

“I suppose we must have Mr. and Mrs. Allan up to tea someday soon,” said
Marilla reflectively. “They’ve been most everywhere but here. Let me
see. Next Wednesday would be a good time to have them. But don’t say a
word to Matthew about it, for if he knew they were coming he’d find some
excuse to be away that day. He’d got so used to Mr. Bentley he didn’t
mind him, but he’s going to find it hard to get acquainted with a new
minister, and a new minister’s wife will frighten him to death.”

“I’ll be as secret as the dead,” assured Anne. “But oh, Marilla, will
you let me make a cake for the occasion? I’d love to do something for
Mrs. Allan, and you know I can make a pretty good cake by this time.”

“You can make a layer cake,” promised Marilla.

Monday and Tuesday great preparations went on at Green Gables.
Having the minister and his wife to tea was a serious and important
undertaking, and Marilla was determined not to be eclipsed by any of
the Avonlea housekeepers. Anne was wild with excitement and delight. She
talked it all over with Diana Tuesday night in the twilight, as they
sat on the big red stones by the Dryad’s Bubble and made rainbows in the
water with little twigs dipped in fir balsam.