“I’m not even going to look at a schoolbook in vacation,” she told
Marilla. “I’ve studied as hard all the term as I possibly could and
I’ve pored over that geometry until I know every proposition in the
first book off by heart, even when the letters _are_ changed. I just
feel tired of everything sensible and I’m going to let my imagination
run riot for the summer. Oh, you needn’t be alarmed, Marilla. I’ll only
let it run riot within reasonable limits. But I want to have a real
good jolly time this summer, for maybe it’s the last summer I’ll be a
little girl. Mrs. Lynde says that if I keep stretching out next year
as I’ve done this I’ll have to put on longer skirts. She says I’m all
running to legs and eyes. And when I put on longer skirts I shall feel
that I have to live up to them and be very dignified. It won’t even do
to believe in fairies then, I’m afraid; so I’m going to believe in them
with all my whole heart this summer. I think we’re going to have a very
gay vacation. Ruby Gillis is going to have a birthday party soon and
there’s the Sunday-school picnic and the missionary concert next month.
And Mr. Barry says that some evening he’ll take Diana and me over to
the White Sands Hotel and have dinner there. They have dinner there in
the evening, you know. Jane Andrews was over once last summer and she
says it was a dazzling sight to see the electric lights and the flowers
and all the lady guests in such beautiful dresses. Jane says it was her
first glimpse into high life and she’ll never forget it to her dying
day.”

Mrs. Lynde came up the next afternoon to find out why Marilla had not
been at the Aid meeting on Thursday. When Marilla was not at Aid meeting
people knew there was something wrong at Green Gables.

“Matthew had a bad spell with his heart Thursday,” Marilla explained,
“and I didn’t feel like leaving him. Oh, yes, he’s all right again now,
but he takes them spells oftener than he used to and I’m anxious about
him. The doctor says he must be careful to avoid excitement. That’s easy
enough, for Matthew doesn’t go about looking for excitement by any means
and never did, but he’s not to do any very heavy work either and you
might as well tell Matthew not to breathe as not to work. Come and lay
off your things, Rachel. You’ll stay to tea?”

“Well, seeing you’re so pressing, perhaps I might as well, stay” said
Mrs. Rachel, who had not the slightest intention of doing anything else.

Mrs. Rachel and Marilla sat comfortably in the parlor while Anne got the
tea and made hot biscuits that were light and white enough to defy even
Mrs. Rachel’s criticism.