“I must say Anne has turned out a real smart girl,” admitted Mrs.
Rachel, as Marilla accompanied her to the end of the lane at sunset.
“She must be a great help to you.”

“She is,” said Marilla, “and she’s real steady and reliable now. I used
to be afraid she’d never get over her featherbrained ways, but she has
and I wouldn’t be afraid to trust her in anything now.”

“I never would have thought she’d have turned out so well that first day
I was here three years ago,” said Mrs. Rachel. “Lawful heart, shall I
ever forget that tantrum of hers! When I went home that night I says to
Thomas, says I, ‘Mark my words, Thomas, Marilla Cuthbert ‘ll live to
rue the step she’s took.’ But I was mistaken and I’m real glad of it. I
ain’t one of those kind of people, Marilla, as can never be brought to
own up that they’ve made a mistake. No, that never was my way, thank
goodness. I did make a mistake in judging Anne, but it weren’t no
wonder, for an odder, unexpecteder witch of a child there never was in
this world, that’s what. There was no ciphering her out by the rules
that worked with other children. It’s nothing short of wonderful how
she’s improved these three years, but especially in looks. She’s a real
pretty girl got to be, though I can’t say I’m overly partial to that
pale, big-eyed style myself. I like more snap and color, like Diana
Barry has or Ruby Gillis. Ruby Gillis’s looks are real showy. But
somehow--I don’t know how it is but when Anne and them are together,
though she ain’t half as handsome, she makes them look kind of common
and overdone--something like them white June lilies she calls narcissus
alongside of the big, red peonies, that’s what.”

CHAPTER XXXI. Where the Brook and River Meet

ANNE had her “good” summer and enjoyed it wholeheartedly. She and Diana
fairly lived outdoors, reveling in all the delights that Lover’s Lane
and the Dryad’s Bubble and Willowmere and Victoria Island afforded.
Marilla offered no objections to Anne’s gypsyings. The Spencervale
doctor who had come the night Minnie May had the croup met Anne at the
house of a patient one afternoon early in vacation, looked her over
sharply, screwed up his mouth, shook his head, and sent a message to
Marilla Cuthbert by another person. It was:

“Keep that redheaded girl of yours in the open air all summer and don’t
let her read books until she gets more spring into her step.”

This message frightened Marilla wholesomely. She read Anne’s death
warrant by consumption in it unless it was scrupulously obeyed. As a
result, Anne had the golden summer of her life as far as freedom and
frolic went. She walked, rowed, berried, and dreamed to her heart’s
content; and when September came she was bright-eyed and alert, with a
step that would have satisfied the Spencervale doctor and a heart full
of ambition and zest once more.