##
One harsh winter, many people in the land were sick. Ma
Monikazi's cheeks burned. Sweat dripped from her body. She
wanted to hold the icy grass to her face to cool down. Under her
blanket she held her belly and sang to the baby inside her: "Be
strong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one. Together
we're strong!"
Her stomach growled when the baby's powerful kicks woke her at
night. She ate the leftover meat in the cooking pot, hungry for life. One bright night the moon was
bigger, fatter and pinker than ever. Her breath came fast. The baby was
ready. The aunties in the birthing
room rubbed her back and warmed
the water. When Monikazi held her
beautiful daughter in her arms, she
knew she was a special girl, a
fighter. What a blessing! Her name is
Nontsikelelo. She will be the mother
of all blessings. ##
Nontsikelelo was beautiful and
strong with crinkling black button
eyes. She loved her older brother,
Mcengi. He made her laugh and so
the laughter spread. She loved to
eat meat before she had teeth. Her
favourite aunt always kept a little
portion on the side of her plate for
Ntsiki. Mcengi chased the chickens
that scratched in the garden where
Ma Monikazi grew spinach and
squash to feed her family. Ntsiki ran
after him as her legs grew strong. Ma Monikazi had another baby boy, Velaphi, and another,
Qudalele. Finally another sister, Nomyaleko. Little Ntsiki folded
napkins and washed the baby clothes. She swept the house and
fed the fire. She picked up her baby brother when he cried and
tickled him till he laughed. She taught them to sing: "Be strong, little one. Winter is gone. Be
brave, little one. Together we're strong!"
##
Qingqiwe, her grandfather, raised
horses. His favourite was Shishi, a
glossy black mare. As soon as Ntsiki
was old enough, he hoisted her on
to the saddle in front of him. His
strong arms reached around her. He
laced the reins through her fingers. He taught her to talk softly to
Shishi, to groom her with a hard
bristled brush. When she stroked its
glossy coat, Albertina whispered,
"You are the most beautiful
creature. Thank you for letting me
ride on your back."
Her father, Bonilizwe, came home from the mines at Christmas. Ntsiki pulled herself up onto Shishi's broad back. She rode out to
meet him at the bus stop. Ntsiki sat tall and straight. Her
knees held firm. She handled the reins with gentle fingers. How proud Bonilizwe was of his daughter. The biggest smile Ntsiki
had ever seen covered her father's face. ##
On her sixth birthday she went to
school. "You must choose an English
name," said the Presbyterian
teacher, but Ntsiki liked her own
name. "Why do I need a new
name?" she asked. The teacher
scowled and read the names aloud:
"Adah, Agnes, Albertina, Anna."
What did they mean? Ntsiki liked
the long name best. Al-ber-ti-na! The name had rhythm. Al-ber-ti-na! The name had bounce.