Albertina was a name you didn't
mess with. When her cousin married a handsome man from a nearby town,
Albertina was chosen as an umkhapi. The maid of honour! Weeks
before the wedding, she stitched her isikhakha, the short
traditional skirt, and threaded bright beads onto her amatikiti. Her
mother gave her the white flag and said, "You have a big job, my
blessing."
At the bend in the road Albertina waved the flag, then turned
Shishi back, leading everybody from miles around to the
ceremony. People would gossip if she made a mistake, but the
guests lined the road. They ululated and sang. They threw down
flowers for the horse and the girl. ##
Her mother was often sick and
needed Albertina to look after the
home. In her last year of primary
school, Albertina was the oldest
pupil in the school. She was chosen
to be the head girl and wore her
badge with pride. Her best friend, Betty, told her
about a competition, saying, "You
must apply, my clever friend."
"What is the prize?" asked
Albertina, growing curious. "A scholarship to high school!" said Betty. "You must apply. You'll
win it, for sure."
Albertina studied until the candle burned down. She practised
sums. She practised spelling. She sharpened her pencils and gave
her shoes an extra shine. Next morning she passed Shishi in her
paddock. The horse whinnied and stamped the ground. ##
The test began. Albertina's fingers
shook. The sums were tricky. Her
mouth went dry. Her hand cramped
on her pencil but she continued. "Well done, Albertina!" said her
teacher at the end. The important
official arrived and called the top
two students to the stage. "Well
done to Albertina for full marks," he
said, "but you are too old. The
scholarship goes to..."
Albertina tried not to cry. "That's unfair," shouted Betty, hopping
with fury. "That wasn't in the rules!" How would Albertina go to
high school now? She dragged her feet all the way home. The teacher wrote to the newspaper about the unfair decision. Brother Joe at the Catholic Mission station read the story over his
breakfast. He cracked his boiled egg with an extra flourish. He
pushed the newspaper across the table to Father Bernard. He
didn't like the story one bit either. ##
Soon enough there was a
scholarship for Albertina. Mariazell
near Matatiele was a long way from
Xolobe, but the whole village
erupted. Their home girl was off to
high school. She would make them
proud. They threw a party like no
other. The women brewed the
sorghum beer and lit the fires. They
slaughtered chickens and stirred up
pots of meat. Albertina smiled till
her face ached. She packed her brown suitcase and polished her shoes again. Before setting off on the bus to
Matatiele, she said goodbye to Shishi. Albertina brushed her coat
and stroked her wiry mane. She whispered all her questions into
the horse's silky ear: What if I get lost? Will I make new friends? Will I still be clever so far from home?