Shishi whinnied and
stamped the ground. School days started well before sunrise. The girls washed quickly
in the cold water and swept the dormitories before Mass. The milky
porridge was never quite enough; the stew not as tasty as Aunty's
back home. But Albertina studied hard. She played netball on
sunny afternoons. In her school holidays Albertina worked at the mission station. She
rubbed and scrubbed against the zinc washboard. She boiled
sheets in copper tubs, then wound them through the wringer. She
hoed and tilled the school garden but missed her family. Who was
telling her brothers and sisters funny stories? Who wiped their
eyes when they cried? Who tickled them until they laughed? ##
Albertina loved the nuns who taught
her. Could she become a holy
sister? "But nuns earn no salary," said
Father Bernard. "Perhaps you
should become a nurse? You'll be
paid while you study."
##
Albertina took a train to
Johannesburg. She bought a smart
white uniform, new navy shoes and
a shiny red fountain pen. Sick
people came all day to the hospital. She cleaned their wounds with
careful fingers. She held the old
people gently. When the babies
cried, she sang: "Be strong, little
one. Winter's not long. Be brave,
little one. Together we're strong! Some nights Albertina worked till dawn. She looked out the window
and thought of her family. Were the children hungry? Did they go
to school? Who was riding Shishi? She remembered the dark green
spinach. She missed the scent of the earth. There was no
vegetable garden here. There was nowhere for a horse. Albertina never went to parties. She saved every shilling. On her
days off she learned to play tennis. Whoosh! Plop! She whacked
the ball across the net. Always, she wished for a little more money
to send home. ##
Walter Sisulu was a brave and
clever man who dreamed of
freedom for South Africa. His big
smile captured Albertina's eye. They walked together down the city
streets. Her delicate hand rested on
his arm. Walter wanted Albertina to
be the mother of his children. Bright ribbons decorated the Bantu Men's Social Centre on their
wedding day. Albertina's long-sleeved dress had a swirling train of
lace. Many friends blessed their special day. Albertina planted
flowers in her little garden. Within a year, Max was born. Albertina
had become a mother. One day people would call her the mother
of the nation. Max had his mother's black button eyes and his father's round
chin. He was the hope for their future. Albertina wanted to fight for
a new South Africa, so that Max could be free. When he cried, she
sang: "Be strong, little one. Winter's not long. Be brave, little one. Together we're strong!"
##
Police came in the middle of the
night, banging on the door. Albertina scolded the men who
messed up her house. "How rude
you are!" she said, "trampling mud
inside my home."
In the morning Albertina's favourite flowers lay crushed beneath
their footprints.