"Nimmie Amee still declared she would marry me, as she still loved me in
spite of the Witch's evil deeds. The girl declared I would make the
brightest husband in all the world, which was quite true. However, the
Wicked Witch was not yet defeated. When I returned to my work the axe
slipped and cut off my head, which was the only meat part of me then
remaining. Moreover, the old woman grabbed up my severed head and
carried it away with her and hid it. But Nimmie Amee came into the
forest and found me wandering around helplessly, because I could not see
where to go, and she led me to my friend the tinsmith. The faithful
fellow at once set to work to make me a tin head, and he had just
completed it when Nimmie Amee came running up with my old head, which
she had stolen from the Witch. But, on reflection, I considered the tin
head far superior to the meat one--I am wearing it yet, so you can see
its beauty and grace of outline--and the girl agreed with me that a man
all made of tin was far more perfect than one formed of different
materials. The tinsmith was as proud of his workmanship as I was, and
for three whole days, all admired me and praised my beauty.

"Being now completely formed of tin, I had no more fear of the Wicked
Witch, for she was powerless to injure me. Nimmie Amee said we must be
married at once, for then she could come to my cottage and live with me
and keep me bright and sparkling.

"'I am sure, my dear Nick,' said the brave and beautiful girl--my name
was then Nick Chopper, you should be told--'that you will make the best
husband any girl could have. I shall not be obliged to cook for you, for
now you do not eat; I shall not have to make your bed, for tin does not
tire or require sleep; when we go to a dance, you will not get weary
before the music stops and say you want to go home. All day long, while
you are chopping wood in the forest, I shall be able to amuse myself in
my own way--a privilege few wives enjoy. There is no temper in your new
head, so you will not get angry with me. Finally, I shall take pride in
being the wife of the only live Tin Woodman in all the world!' Which
shows that Nimmie Amee was as wise as she was brave and beautiful."

"I think she was a very nice girl," said Woot the Wanderer. "But, tell
me, please, why were you not killed when you were chopped to pieces?"