Woot the Wanderer slept that night in the tin castle of the Emperor of
the Winkies and found his tin bed quite comfortable. Early the next
morning he rose and took a walk through the gardens, where there were
tin fountains and beds of curious tin flowers, and where tin birds
perched upon the branches of tin trees and sang songs that sounded like
the notes of tin whistles. All these wonders had been made by the clever
Winkie tinsmiths, who wound the birds up every morning so that they
would move about and sing.

After breakfast the boy went into the throne room, where the Emperor was
having his tin joints carefully oiled by a servant, while other servants
were stuffing sweet, fresh straw into the body of the Scarecrow.

Woot watched this operation with much interest, for the Scarecrow's body
was only a suit of clothes filled with straw. The coat was buttoned
tight to keep the packed straw from falling out and a rope was tied
around the waist to hold it in shape and prevent the straw from sagging
down. The Scarecrow's head was a gunnysack filled with bran, on which
the eyes, nose and mouth had been painted. His hands were white cotton
gloves stuffed with fine straw. Woot noticed that even when carefully
stuffed and patted into shape, the straw man was awkward in his
movements and decidedly wobbly on his feet, so the boy wondered if the
Scarecrow would be able to travel with them all the way to the forests
of the Munchkin Country of Oz.

The preparations made for this important journey were very simple. A
knapsack was filled with food and given Woot the Wanderer to carry upon
his back, for the food was for his use alone. The Tin Woodman shouldered
an axe which was sharp and brightly polished, and the Scarecrow put the
Emperor's oil-can in his pocket, that he might oil his friend's joints
should they need it.

"Who will govern the Winkie Country during your absence?" asked the
boy.

"Why, the Country will run itself," answered the Emperor. "As a matter
of fact, my people do not need an Emperor, for Ozma of Oz watches over
the welfare of all her subjects, including the Winkies. Like a good many
kings and emperors, I have a grand title, but very little real power,
which allows me time to amuse myself in my own way. The people of Oz
have but one law to obey, which is: 'Behave Yourself,' so it is easy for
them to abide by this Law, and you'll notice they behave very well. But
it is time for us to be off, and I am eager to start because I suppose
that that poor Munchkin girl is anxiously awaiting my coming."

"She's waited a long time already, seems to me," remarked the Scarecrow,
as they left the grounds of the castle and followed a path that led
eastward.