One of the Scarecrow's recitations was like this:

"What sound is so sweet
      As the straw from the wheat
    When it crunkles so tender and low?
      It is yellow and bright,
      So it gives me delight
    To crunkle wherever I go.

"Sweet, fresh, golden Straw!
      There is surely no flaw
    In a stuffing so clean and compact.
      It creaks when I walk,
      And it thrills when I talk,
    And its fragrance is fine, for a fact.

"To cut me don't hurt,
      For I've no blood to squirt,
    And I therefore can suffer no pain;
      The straw that I use
      Doesn't lump up or bruise,
    Though it's pounded again and again!

"I know it is said
      That my beautiful head
    Has brains of mixed wheat-straw and bran,
      But my thoughts are so good
      I'd not change, if I could,
    For the brains of a common meat man.

"Content with my lot,
      I'm glad that I'm not
    Like others I meet day by day;
      If my insides get musty,
      Or mussed-up, or dusty,
    I get newly stuffed right away."

The Loons of Loonville

CHAPTER 4

Toward evening, the travelers found there was no longer a path to guide
them, and the purple hues of the grass and trees warned them that they
were now in the Country of the Gillikins, where strange peoples dwelt in
places that were quite unknown to the other inhabitants of Oz. The
fields were wild and uncultivated and there were no houses of any sort
to be seen. But our friends kept on walking even after the sun went
down, hoping to find a good place for Woot the Wanderer to sleep; but
when it grew quite dark and the boy was weary with his long walk, they
halted right in the middle of a field and allowed Woot to get his supper
from the food he carried in his knapsack. Then the Scarecrow laid
himself down, so that Woot could use his stuffed body as a pillow, and
the Tin Woodman stood up beside them all night, so the dampness of the
ground might not rust his joints or dull his brilliant polish. Whenever
the dew settled on his body he carefully wiped it off with a cloth, and
so in the morning the Emperor shone as brightly as ever in the rays of
the rising sun.

They wakened the boy at daybreak, the Scarecrow saying to him:

"We have discovered something queer, and therefore we must counsel
together what to do about it."

"What have you discovered?" asked Woot, rubbing the sleep from his eyes
with his knuckles and giving three wide yawns to prove he was fully
awake.

"A Sign," said the Tin Woodman. "A Sign, and another path."

"What does the Sign say?" inquired the boy.

"It says that 'All Strangers are Warned not to Follow this Path to
Loonville,'" answered the Scarecrow, who could read very well when his
eyes had been freshly painted.

"In that case," said the boy, opening his knapsack to get some
breakfast, "let us travel in some other direction."