But this did not seem to please either of his companions.

"I'd like to see what Loonville looks like," remarked the Tin Woodman.

"When one travels, it is foolish to miss any interesting sight," added
the Scarecrow.

"But a warning means danger," protested Woot the Wanderer, "and I
believe it sensible to keep out of danger whenever we can."

They made no reply to this speech for a while. Then said the Scarecrow:

"I have escaped so many dangers, during my lifetime, that I am not much
afraid of anything that can happen."

"Nor am I!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, swinging his glittering axe
around his tin head, in a series of circles. "Few things can injure tin,
and my axe is a powerful weapon to use against a foe. But our boy
friend," he continued, looking solemnly at Woot, "might perhaps be
injured if the people of Loonville are really dangerous; so I propose he
waits here while you and I, Friend Scarecrow, visit the forbidden City
of Loonville."

"Don't worry about me," advised Woot, calmly. "Wherever you wish to go,
I will go, and share your dangers. During my wanderings I have found it
more wise to keep out of danger than to venture in, but at that time I
was alone, and now I have two powerful friends to protect me."

So, when he had finished his breakfast, they all set out along the path
that led to Loonville.

"It is a place I have never heard of before," remarked the Scarecrow, as
they approached a dense forest. "The inhabitants may be people, of some
sort, or they may be animals, but whatever they prove to be, we will
have an interesting story to relate to Dorothy and Ozma on our return."

The path led into the forest, but the big trees grew so closely together
and the vines and underbrush were so thick and matted that they had to
clear a path at each step in order to proceed. In one or two places the
Tin Man, who went first to clear the way, cut the branches with a blow
of his axe. Woot followed next, and last of the three came the
Scarecrow, who could not have kept the path at all had not his comrades
broken the way for his straw-stuffed body.

Presently the Tin Woodman pushed his way through some heavy underbrush,
and almost tumbled headlong into a vast cleared space in the forest. The
clearing was circular, big and roomy, yet the top branches of the tall
trees reached over and formed a complete dome or roof for it. Strangely
enough, it was not dark in this immense natural chamber in the woodland,
for the place glowed with a soft, white light that seemed to come from
some unseen source.