In the chamber were grouped dozens of queer creatures, and these so
astonished the Tin Man that Woot had to push his metal body aside, that
he might see, too. And the Scarecrow pushed Woot aside, so that the
three travelers stood in a row, staring with all their eyes.

The creatures they beheld were round and ball-like; round in body, round
in legs and arms, round in hands and feet and round of head. The only
exception to the roundness was a slight hollow on the top of each head,
making it saucer-shaped instead of dome-shaped. They wore no clothes on
their puffy bodies, nor had they any hair. Their skins were all of a
light gray color, and their eyes were mere purple spots. Their noses
were as puffy as the rest of them.

"Are they rubber, do you think?" asked the Scarecrow, who noticed that
the creatures bounded, as they moved, and seemed almost as light as air.

"It is difficult to tell what they are," answered Woot, "they seem to be
covered with warts."

The Loons--for so these folks were called--had been doing many things,
some playing together, some working at tasks and some gathered in groups
to talk; but at the sound of strange voices, which echoed rather loudly
through the clearing, all turned in the direction of the intruders.
Then, in a body, they all rushed forward, running and bounding with
tremendous speed.

The Tin Woodman was so surprised by this sudden dash that he had no time
to raise his axe before the Loons were on them. The creatures swung
their puffy hands, which looked like boxing-gloves, and pounded the
three travelers as hard as they could, on all sides. The blows were
quite soft and did not hurt our friends at all, but the onslaught quite
bewildered them, so that in a brief period all three were knocked over
and fell flat upon the ground. Once down, many of the Loons held them,
to prevent their getting up again, while others wound long tendrils of
vines about them, binding their arms and legs to their bodies and so
rendering them helpless.

"Aha!" cried the biggest Loon of all; "we've got 'em safe; so let's
carry 'em to King Bal and have 'em tried, and condemned and perforated!"

They had to drag their captives to the center of the domed chamber, for
their weight, as compared with that of the Loons, prevented their being
carried. Even the Scarecrow was much heavier than the puffy Loons. But
finally the party halted before a raised platform, on which stood a sort
of throne, consisting of a big, wide chair with a string tied to one arm
of it. This string led upward to the roof of the dome.

Arranged before the platform, the prisoners were allowed to sit up,
facing the empty throne.

"Good!" said the big Loon who had commanded the party. "Now to get King
Bal to judge these terrible creatures we have so bravely captured."