So the Loons stopped pumping air into Panta, and pushed him away from
the pump. He was certainly more humble than before his accident, for he
crept into the background and said nothing more.

"Now pump up the other one," ordered the King. Til had already mended
him, and the Loons set to work to pump him full of air.

During these last few moments none had paid much attention to the
prisoners, so Woot, finding his legs free, crept over to the Tin Woodman
and rubbed the bonds that were still around his arms and body against
the sharp edge of the axe, which quickly cut them.

The boy was now free, and the thorn which the Loon had stuck into his
leg was lying unnoticed on the ground, where the creature had dropped it
when he exploded. Woot leaned forward and picked up the thorn, and while
the Loons were busy watching the pump, the boy sprang to his feet and
suddenly rushed upon the group.

"Pop"--"pop"--"pop!" went three of the Loons, when the Wanderer pricked
them with his thorn, and at the sounds the others looked around and saw
their danger. With yells of fear they bounded away in all directions,
scattering about the clearing, with Woot the Wanderer in full chase.
While they could run much faster than the boy, they often stumbled and
fell, or got in one another's way, so he managed to catch several and
prick them with his thorn.

It astonished him to see how easily the Loons exploded. When the air was
let out of them they were quite helpless. Til Loon was one of those who
ran against his thorn and many others suffered the same fate. The
creatures could not escape from the enclosure, but in their fright many
bounded upward and caught branches of the trees, and then climbed out of
reach of the dreaded thorn.

Woot was getting pretty tired chasing them, so he stopped and came over,
panting, to where his friends were sitting, still bound.

"Very well done, my Wanderer," said the Tin Woodman. "It is evident that
we need fear these puffed-up creatures no longer, so be kind enough to
unfasten our bonds and we will proceed upon our journey."

Woot untied the bonds of the Scarecrow and helped him to his feet. Then
he freed the Tin Woodman, who got up without help. Looking around them,
they saw that the only Loon now remaining within reach was Bal Loon, the
King, who had remained seated in his throne, watching the punishment of
his people with a bewildered look in his purple eyes.

"Shall I puncture the King?" the boy asked his companions.