King Bal must have overheard the question, for he fumbled with the cord
that fastened him to the throne and managed to release it. Then he
floated upward until he reached the leafy dome, and parting the branches
he disappeared from sight. But the string that was tied to his body was
still connected with the arm of the throne, and they knew they could
pull his Majesty down again, if they wanted to.

"Let him alone," suggested the Scarecrow. "He seems a good enough king
for his peculiar people, and after we are gone, the Loons will have
something of a job to pump up all those whom Woot has punctured."

"Every one of them ought to be exploded," declared Woot, who was angry
because his leg still hurt him.

"No," said the Tin Woodman, "that would not be just fair. They were
quite right to capture us, because we had no business to intrude here,
having been warned to keep away from Loonville. This is their country,
not ours, and since the poor things can't get out of the clearing, they
can harm no one save those who venture here out of curiosity, as we
did."

"Well said, my friend," agreed the Scarecrow. "We really had no right to
disturb their peace and comfort; so let us go away."

They easily found the place where they had forced their way into the
enclosure, so the Tin Woodman pushed aside the underbrush and started
first along the path. The Scarecrow followed next and last came Woot,
who looked back and saw that the Loons were still clinging to their
perches on the trees and watching their former captives with frightened
eyes.

"I guess they're glad to see the last of us," remarked the boy, and
laughing at the happy ending of the adventure, he followed his comrades
along the path.

Mrs. Yoop, the Giantess

CHAPTER 5

When they had reached the end of the path, where they had first seen the
warning sign, they set off across the country in an easterly direction.
Before long they reached Rolling Lands, which were a succession of hills
and valleys where constant climbs and descents were required, and their
journey now became tedious, because on climbing each hill, they found
before them nothing in the valley below it--except grass, or weeds or
stones.

Up and down they went for hours, with nothing to relieve the monotony of
the landscape, until finally, when they had topped a higher hill than
usual, they discovered a cup-shaped valley before them in the center of
which stood an enormous castle, built of purple stone. The castle was
high and broad and long, but had no turrets and towers. So far as they
could see, there was but one small window and one big door on each side
of the great building.

"This is strange!" mused the Scarecrow. "I'd no idea such a big castle
existed in this Gillikin Country. I wonder who lives here?"