"Please be seated," she said to them, as she sat herself down in a great
arm-chair and spread her beautiful embroidered skirts for them to
admire. But all the chairs in the room were so high that our friends
could not climb to the seats of them. Mrs. Yoop observed this and waved
her hand, when instantly a golden ladder appeared leaning against a
chair opposite her own.

"Climb up," said she, and they obeyed, the Tin Man and the boy assisting
the more clumsy Scarecrow. When they were all seated in a row on the
cushion of the chair, the Giantess continued: "Now tell me how you
happened to travel in this direction, and where you came from and what
your errand is."

So the Tin Woodman told her all about Nimmie Amee, and how he had
decided to find her and marry her, although he had no Loving Heart. The
story seemed to amuse the big woman, who then began to ask the Scarecrow
questions and for the first time in her life heard of Ozma of Oz, and of
Dorothy and Jack Pumpkinhead and Dr. Pipt and Tik-tok and many other Oz
people who are well known in the Emerald City. Also Woot had to tell
his story, which was very simple and did not take long. The Giantess
laughed heartily when the boy related their adventure at Loonville, but
said she knew nothing of the Loons because she never left her Valley.

"There are wicked people who would like to capture me, as they did my
giant husband, Mr. Yoop," said she; "so I stay at home and mind my own
business."

"If Ozma knew that you dared to work magic without her consent, she
would punish you severely," declared the Scarecrow, "for this castle is
in the Land of Oz, and no persons in the Land of Oz are permitted to
work magic except Glinda the Good and the little Wizard who lives with
Ozma in the Emerald City."

"_That_ for your Ozma!" exclaimed the Giantess, snapping her fingers in
derision. "What do I care for a girl whom I have never seen and who has
never seen me?"

"But Ozma is a fairy," said the Tin Woodman, "and therefore she is very
powerful. Also, we are under Ozma's protection, and to injure us in any
way would make her extremely angry."

"What I do here, in my own private castle in this secluded
Valley--where no one comes but fools like you--can never be known to
your fairy Ozma," returned the Giantess. "Do not seek to frighten me
from my purpose, and do not allow yourselves to be frightened, for it is
best to meet bravely what cannot be avoided. I am now going to bed, and
in the morning I will give you all new forms, such as will be more
interesting to me than the ones you now wear. Good night, and pleasant
dreams."