Saying this, Mrs. Yoop rose from her chair and walked through a doorway
into another room. So heavy was the tread of the Giantess that even the
walls of the big stone castle trembled as she stepped. She closed the
door of her bedroom behind her, and then suddenly the light went out and
the three prisoners found themselves in total darkness.

The Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow didn't mind the dark at all, but Woot
the Wanderer felt worried to be left in this strange place in this
strange manner, without being able to see any danger that might
threaten.

"The big woman might have given me a bed, anyhow," he said to his
companions, and scarcely had he spoken when he felt something press
against his legs, which were then dangling from the seat of the chair.
Leaning down, he put out his hand and found that a bedstead had
appeared, with mattress, sheets and covers, all complete. He lost no
time in slipping down upon the bed and was soon fast asleep.

During the night the Scarecrow and the Emperor talked in low tones
together, and they got out of the chair and moved all about the room,
feeling for some hidden spring that might open a door or window and
permit them to escape.

Morning found them still unsuccessful in the quest and as soon as it was
daylight Woot's bed suddenly disappeared, and he dropped to the floor
with a thump that quickly wakened him. And after a time the Giantess
came from her bedroom, wearing another dress that was quite as elaborate
as the one in which she had been attired the evening before, and also
wearing the pretty lace apron. Having seated herself in a chair, she
said:

"I'm hungry; so I'll have breakfast at once."

She clapped her hands together and instantly the table appeared before
her, spread with snowy linen and laden with golden dishes. But there was
no food upon the table, nor anything else except a pitcher of water, a
bundle of weeds and a handful of pebbles. But the Giantess poured some
water into her coffee-pot, patted it once or twice with her hand, and
then poured out a cupful of steaming hot coffee.

"Would you like some?" she asked Woot.

He was suspicious of magic coffee, but it smelled so good that he could
not resist it; so he answered: "If you please, Madam."

The Giantess poured out another cup and set it on the floor for Woot. It
was as big as a tub, and the golden spoon in the saucer beside the cup
was so heavy the boy could scarcely lift it. But Woot managed to get a
sip of the coffee and found it delicious.

Mrs. Yoop next transformed the weeds into a dish of oatmeal, which she
ate with good appetite.

"Now, then," said she, picking up the pebbles, "I'm wondering whether I
shall have fish-balls or lamb-chops to complete my meal. Which would you
prefer, Woot the Wanderer?"