"If you please, I'll eat the food in my knapsack," answered the boy.
"Your magic food might taste good, but I'm afraid of it."

The woman laughed at his fears and transformed the pebbles into
fish-balls.

"I suppose you think that after you had eaten this food it would turn to
stones again and make you sick," she remarked; "but that would be
impossible. _Nothing I transform ever gets back to its former shape
again_, so these fish-balls can never more be pebbles. That is why I
have to be careful of my transformations," she added, busily eating
while she talked, "for while I can change forms at will I can never
change them back again--which proves that even the powers of a clever
Yookoohoo are limited. When I have transformed you three people, you
must always wear the shapes that I have given you."

"Then please don't transform us," begged Woot, "for we are quite
satisfied to remain as we are."

"I am not expecting to satisfy you, but intend to please myself," she
declared, "and my pleasure is to give you new shapes. For, if by chance
your friends came in search of you, not one of them would be able to
recognize you."

Her tone was so positive that they knew it would be useless to protest.
The woman was not unpleasant to look at; her face was not cruel; her
voice was big but gracious in tone; but her words showed that she
possessed a merciless heart and no pleadings would alter her wicked
purpose.

Mrs. Yoop took ample time to finish her breakfast and the prisoners had
no desire to hurry her, but finally the meal was concluded and she
folded her napkin and made the table disappear by clapping her hands
together. Then she turned to her captives and said:

"The next thing on the programme is to change your forms."

"Have you decided what forms to give us?" asked the Scarecrow, uneasily.

"Yes; I dreamed it all out while I was asleep. This Tin Man seems a very
solemn person"--indeed, the Tin Woodman _was_ looking solemn, just then,
for he was greatly disturbed--"so I shall change him into an Owl."

All she did was to point one finger at him as she spoke, but immediately
the form of the Tin Woodman began to change and in a few seconds Nick
Chopper, the Emperor of the Winkies, had been transformed into an Owl,
with eyes as big as saucers and a hooked beak and strong claws. But he
was still tin. He was a Tin Owl, with tin legs and beak and eyes and
feathers. When he flew to the back of a chair and perched upon it, his
tin feathers rattled against one another with a tinny clatter.

The Giantess seemed much amused by the Tin Owl's appearance, for her
laugh was big and jolly.