Woot shivered, for again the terrible magic finger pointed, and pointed
directly his way. He felt himself changing; not so very much, however,
and it didn't hurt him a bit. He looked down at his limbs and body and
found that his clothes were gone and his skin covered with a fine,
silk-like green fur. His hands and feet were now those of a monkey. He
realized he really _was_ a monkey, and his first feeling was one of
anger. He began to chatter as monkeys do. He bounded to the seat of a
giant chair, and then to its back and with a wild leap sprang upon the
laughing Giantess. His idea was to seize her hair and pull it out by the
roots, and so have revenge for her wicked transformations. But she
raised her hand and said:

"Gently, my dear Monkey--gently! You're not angry; you're happy as can
be!"

Woot stopped short. No; he wasn't a bit angry now; he felt as
good-humored and gay as ever he did when a boy. Instead of pulling Mrs.
Yoop's hair, he perched on her shoulder and smoothed her soft cheek with
his hairy paw. In return, she smiled at the funny green animal and
patted his head.

"Very good," said the Giantess. "Let us all become friends and be happy
together. How is my Tin Owl feeling?"

"Quite comfortable," said the Owl. "I don't like it, to be sure, but I'm
not going to allow my new form to make me unhappy. But, tell me, please:
What is a Tin Owl good for?"

"You are only good to make me laugh," replied the Giantess.

"Will a stuffed Bear also make you laugh?" inquired the Scarecrow,
sitting back on his haunches to look up at her.

"Of course," declared the Giantess; "and I have added a little magic to
your transformations to make you all contented with wearing your new
forms. I'm sorry I didn't think to do that when I transformed Polychrome
into a Canary-Bird. But perhaps, when she sees how cheerful you are, she
will cease to be silent and sullen and take to singing. I will go get
the bird and let you see her."

With this, Mrs. Yoop went into the next room and soon returned bearing a
golden cage in which sat upon a swinging perch a lovely yellow Canary.

"Polychrome," said the Giantess, "permit me to introduce to you a Green
Monkey, which used to be a boy called Woot the Wanderer, and a Tin Owl,
which used to be a Tin Woodman named Nick Chopper, and a straw-stuffed
little Brown Bear which used to be a live Scarecrow."

"We already know one another," declared the Scarecrow. "The bird is
Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter, and she and I used to be good
friends."

"Are you really my old friend, the Scarecrow?" asked the bird, in a
sweet, low voice.

"There!" cried Mrs. Yoop; "that's the first time she has spoken since
she was transformed."