"The lace one, which the Giantess always wears. I have been her
prisoner, in this cage, for several weeks, and she hangs my cage in her
bedroom every night, so that she can keep her eye on me," explained
Polychrome the Canary. "Therefore I have discovered that it is the Magic
Apron that opens the doors and windows, and nothing else can move them.
When she goes to bed, Mrs. Yoop hangs her apron on the bedpost, and one
morning she forgot to put it on when she commanded the door to open, and
the door would not move. So then she put on the lace apron and the door
obeyed her. That was how I learned the magic power of the apron."

"I see--I see!" said the little Brown Bear, wagging his stuffed head.
"Then, if we could get the apron from Mrs. Yoop, we could open the doors
and escape from our prison."

"That is true, and it is the plan I was about to suggest," replied
Polychrome the Canary-Bird. "However, I don't believe the Owl could
steal the apron, or even the Bear, but perhaps the Monkey could hide in
her room at night and get the apron while she is asleep."

"I'll try it!" cried Woot the Monkey. "I'll try it this very night, if I
can manage to steal into her bedroom."

"You mustn't think about it, though," warned the bird, "for she can read
your thoughts whenever she cares to do so. And do not forget, before you
escape, to take me with you. Once I am out of the power of the Giantess,
I may discover a way to save us all."

"We won't forget our fairy friend," promised the boy; "but perhaps you
can tell me how to get into the bedroom."

"No," declared Polychrome, "I cannot advise you as to that. You must
watch for a chance, and slip in when Mrs. Yoop isn't looking."

They talked it over for a while longer and then Mrs. Yoop returned. When
she entered, the door opened suddenly, at her command, and closed as
soon as her huge form had passed through the doorway. During that day
she entered her bedroom several times, on one errand or another, but
always she commanded the door to close behind her and her prisoners
found not the slightest chance to leave the big hall in which they were
confined.