The Green Monkey thought it would be wise to make a friend of the big
woman, so as to gain her confidence, so he sat on the back of her chair
and chattered to her while she mended her stockings and sewed silver
buttons on some golden shoes that were as big as row-boats. This pleased
the Giantess and she would pause at times to pat the Monkey's head. The
little Brown Bear curled up in a corner and lay still all day. The Owl
and the Canary found they could converse together in the bird language,
which neither the Giantess nor the Bear nor the Monkey could understand;
so at times they twittered away to each other and passed the long,
dreary day quite cheerfully.

After dinner Mrs. Yoop took a big fiddle from a big cupboard and played
such loud and dreadful music that her prisoners were all thankful when
at last she stopped and said she was going to bed.

After cautioning the Monkey and Bear and Owl to behave themselves during
the night, she picked up the cage containing the Canary and, going to
the door of her bedroom, commanded it to open. Just then, however, she
remembered she had left her fiddle lying upon a table, so she went back
for it and put it away in the cupboard, and while her back was turned
the Green Monkey slipped through the open door into her bedroom and hid
underneath the bed. The Giantess, being sleepy, did not notice this, and
entering her room she made the door close behind her and then hung the
bird-cage on a peg by the window. Then she began to undress, first
taking off the lace apron and laying it over the bedpost, where it was
within easy reach of her hand.

As soon as Mrs. Yoop was in bed the lights all went out, and Woot the
Monkey crouched under the bed and waited patiently until he heard the
Giantess snoring. Then he crept out and in the dark felt around until he
got hold of the apron, which he at once tied around his own waist.

Next, Woot tried to find the Canary, and there was just enough moonlight
showing through the window to enable him to see where the cage hung; but
it was out of his reach. At first he was tempted to leave Polychrome and
escape with his other friends, but remembering his promise to the
Rainbow's Daughter Woot tried to think how to save her.