A chair stood near the window, and this--showing dimly in the
moonlight--gave him an idea. By pushing against it with all his might,
he found he could move the giant chair a few inches at a time. So he
pushed and pushed until the chair was beneath the bird-cage, and then he
sprang noiselessly upon the seat--for his monkey form enabled him to
jump higher than he could do as a boy--and from there to the back of the
chair, and so managed to reach the cage and take it off the peg. Then
down he sprang to the floor and made his way to the door.

"Open!" he commanded, and at once the door obeyed and swung open. But
his voice wakened Mrs. Yoop, who gave a wild cry and sprang out of bed
with one bound. The Green Monkey dashed through the doorway, carrying
the cage with him, and before the Giantess could reach the door it
slammed shut and imprisoned her in her own bed-chamber!

The noise she made, pounding upon the door, and her yells of anger and
dreadful threats of vengeance, filled all our friends with terror, and
Woot the Monkey was so excited that in the dark he could not find the
outer door of the hall. But the Tin Owl could see very nicely in the
dark, so he guided his friends to the right place and when all were
grouped before the door Woot commanded it to open. The Magic Apron
proved as powerful as when it had been worn by the Giantess, so a moment
later they had rushed through the passage and were standing in the fresh
night air outside the castle, free to go wherever they willed.

The Menace of the Forest

CHAPTER 8

"Quick!" cried Polychrome the Canary; "we must hurry, or Mrs. Yoop may
find some way to recapture us, even now. Let us get out of her Valley as
soon as possible."

So they set off toward the east, moving as swiftly as they could, and
for a long time they could hear the yells and struggles of the
imprisoned Giantess. The Green Monkey could run over the ground very
swiftly, and he carried with him the bird-cage containing Polychrome the
Rainbow's Daughter. Also the Tin Owl could skip and fly along at a good
rate of speed, his feathers rattling against one another with a tinkling
sound as he moved. But the little Brown Bear, being stuffed with straw,
was a clumsy traveler and the others had to wait for him to follow.

However, they were not very long in reaching the ridge that led out of
Mrs. Yoop's Valley, and when they had passed this ridge and descended
into the next valley they stopped to rest, for the Green Monkey was
tired.