"I believe we are safe, now," said Polychrome, when her cage was set
down and the others had all gathered around it, "for Mrs. Yoop dares not
go outside of her own Valley, for fear of being captured by her enemies.
So we may take our time to consider what to do next."

"I'm afraid poor Mrs. Yoop will starve to death, if no one lets her out
of her bedroom," said Woot, who had a heart as kind as that of the Tin
Woodman. "We've taken her Magic Apron away, and now the doors will never
open."

"Don't worry about that," advised Polychrome. "Mrs. Yoop has plenty of
magic left to console her."

"Are you sure of that?" asked the Green Monkey.

"Yes, for I've been watching her for weeks," said the Canary. "She has
six magic hairpins, which she wears in her hair, and a magic ring which
she wears on her thumb and which is invisible to all eyes except those
of a fairy, and magic bracelets on both her ankles. So I am positive
that she will manage to find a way out of her prison."

"She might transform the door into an archway," suggested the little
Brown Bear.

"That would be easy for her," said the Tin Owl; "but I'm glad she was
too angry to think of that before we got out of her Valley."

"Well, we have escaped the big woman, to be sure," remarked the Green
Monkey, "but we still wear the awful forms the cruel yookoohoo gave us.
How are we going to get rid of these shapes, and become ourselves
again?"

None could answer that question. They sat around the cage, brooding over
the problem, until the Monkey fell asleep. Seeing this, the Canary
tucked her head under her wing and also slept, and the Tin Owl and the
Brown Bear did not disturb them until morning came and it was broad
daylight.

"I'm hungry," said Woot, when he wakened, for his knapsack of food had
been left behind at the castle.

"Then let us travel on until we can find something for you to eat,"
returned the Scarecrow Bear.

"There is no use in your lugging my cage any farther," declared the
Canary. "Let me out, and throw the cage away. Then I can fly with you
and find my own breakfast of seeds. Also I can search for water, and
tell you where to find it."

So the Green Monkey unfastened the door of the golden cage and the
Canary hopped out. At first she flew high in the air and made great
circles overhead, but after a time she returned and perched beside them.

"At the east, in the direction we were following," announced the Canary,
"there is a fine forest, with a brook running through it. In the forest
there may be fruits or nuts growing, or berry bushes at its edge, so let
us go that way."