They agreed to this and promptly set off, this time moving more
deliberately. The Tin Owl, which had guided their way during the night,
now found the sunshine very trying to his big eyes, so he shut them
tight and perched upon the back of the little Brown Bear, which carried
the Owl's weight with ease. The Canary sometimes perched upon the Green
Monkey's shoulder and sometimes fluttered on ahead of the party, and in
this manner they traveled in good spirits across that valley and into
the next one to the east of it.

This they found to be an immense hollow, shaped like a saucer, and on
its farther edge appeared the forest which Polychrome had seen from the
sky.

"Come to think of it," said the Tin Owl, waking up and blinking
comically at his friends, "there's no object, now, in our traveling to
the Munchkin Country. My idea in going there was to marry Nimmie Amee,
but however much the Munchkin girl may have loved a Tin Woodman, I
cannot reasonably expect her to marry a Tin Owl."

"There is some truth in that, my friend," remarked the Brown Bear. "And
to think that I, who was considered the handsomest Scarecrow in the
world, am now condemned to be a scrubby, no-account beast, whose only
redeeming feature is that he is stuffed with straw!"

"Consider _my_ case, please," said Woot. "The cruel Giantess has made a
Monkey of a Boy, and that is the most dreadful deed of all!"

"Your color is rather pretty," said the Brown Bear, eyeing Woot
critically. "I have never seen a pea-green monkey before, and it strikes
me you are quite gorgeous."

"It isn't so bad to be a bird," asserted the Canary, fluttering from one
to another with a free and graceful motion, "but I long to enjoy my own
shape again."

"As Polychrome, you were the loveliest maiden I have ever seen--except,
of course, Ozma," said the Tin Owl; "so the Giantess did well to
transform you into the loveliest of all birds, if you were to be
transformed at all. But tell me, since you are a fairy, and have a fairy
wisdom: do you think we shall be able to break these enchantments?"

"Queer things happen in the Land of Oz," replied the Canary, again
perching on the Green Monkey's shoulder and turning one bright eye
thoughtfully toward her questioner. "Mrs. Yoop has declared that none of
her transformations can ever be changed, even by herself, but I believe
that if we could get to Glinda, the Good Sorceress, she might find a way
to restore us to our natural shapes. Glinda, as you know, is the most
powerful Sorceress in the world, and there are few things she cannot do
if she tries."

"In that case," said the Little Brown Bear, "let us return southward and
try to get to Glinda's castle. It lies in the Quadling Country, you
know, so it is a good way from here."