"Give me a couple of fat rabbits," said the beast.

"Rabbits! No, indeed. I'd not allow you to eat the dear little things,"
declared Polychrome the Canary.

"Well, three or four squirrels, then," pleaded the Jaguar.

"Do you think me so cruel?" demanded the Canary, indignantly. "The
squirrels are my especial friends."

"How about a plump owl?" asked the beast. "Not a tin one, you know, but
a real meat owl."

"Neither beast nor bird shall you have," said Polychrome in a positive
voice.

"Give me a fish, then; there's a river a little way off," proposed the
Jaguar.

"No living thing shall be sacrificed to feed you," returned the Canary.

"Then what in the world do you expect me to eat?" said the Jaguar in a
scornful tone.

"How would mush-and-milk do?" asked the Canary.

The Jaguar snarled in derision and lashed his tail against the ground
angrily.

"Give him some scrambled eggs on toast, Poly," suggested the Bear
Scarecrow. "He ought to like that."

"I will," responded the Canary, and fluttering her wings she made a
flight of three circles around the stump. Then she flew up to a tree
and the Bear and the Owl and the Jaguar saw that upon the stump had
appeared a great green leaf upon which was a large portion of scrambled
eggs on toast, smoking hot.

"There!" said the Bear; "eat your breakfast, friend Jaguar, and be
content."

The Jaguar crept closer to the stump and sniffed the fragrance of the
scrambled eggs. They smelled so good that he tasted them, and they
tasted so good that he ate the strange meal in a hurry, proving he had
been really hungry.

"I prefer rabbits," he muttered, licking his chops, "but I must admit
the magic breakfast has filled my stomach full, and brought me comfort.
So I'm much obliged for the kindness, little Fairy, and I'll now leave
you in peace."

Saying this, he plunged into the thick underbrush and soon disappeared,
although they could hear his great body crashing through the bushes
until he was far distant.

"That was a good way to get rid of the savage beast, Poly," said the Tin
Woodman to the Canary; "but I'm surprised that you didn't give our
friend Woot a magic breakfast, when you knew he was hungry."

"The reason for that," answered Polychrome, "was that my mind was so
intent on other things that I quite forgot my power to produce food by
magic. But where _is_ the monkey boy?"

"Gone!" said the Scarecrow Bear, solemnly. "The earth has swallowed him
up."

The Quarrelsome Dragons

CHAPTER 9

The Green Monkey sank gently into the earth for a little way and then
tumbled swiftly through space, landing on a rocky floor with a thump
that astonished him. Then he sat up, found that no bones were broken,
and gazed around him.