He seemed to be in a big underground cave, which was dimly lighted by
dozens of big round discs that looked like moons. They were not moons,
however, as Woot discovered when he had examined the place more
carefully. They were eyes. The eyes were in the heads of enormous beasts
whose bodies trailed far behind them. Each beast was bigger than an
elephant, and three times as long, and there were a dozen or more of the
creatures scattered here and there about the cavern. On their bodies
were big scales, as round as pie-plates, which were beautifully tinted
in shades of green, purple and orange. On the ends of their long tails
were clusters of jewels. Around the great, moon-like eyes were circles
of diamonds which sparkled in the subdued light that glowed from the
eyes.

Woot saw that the creatures had wide mouths and rows of terrible teeth
and, from tales he had heard of such beings, he knew he had fallen into
a cavern inhabited by the great Dragons that had been driven from the
surface of the earth and were only allowed to come out once in a hundred
years to search for food. Of course he had never seen Dragons before,
yet there was no mistaking them, for they were unlike any other living
creatures.

Woot sat upon the floor where he had fallen, staring around, and the
owners of the big eyes returned his look, silently and motionless.
Finally one of the Dragons which was farthest away from him asked, in a
deep, grave voice:

"What was that?"

And the greatest Dragon of all, who was just in front of the Green
Monkey, answered in a still deeper voice:

"It is some foolish animal from Outside."

"Is it good to eat?" inquired a smaller Dragon beside the great one.
"I'm hungry."

"Hungry!" exclaimed all the Dragons, in a reproachful chorus; and then
the great one said chidingly: "Tut-tut, my son! You've no reason to be
hungry at _this_ time."

"Why not?" asked the little Dragon. "I haven't eaten anything in eleven
years."

"Eleven years is nothing," remarked another Dragon, sleepily opening and
closing his eyes; "_I_ haven't feasted for eighty-seven years, and I
dare not get hungry for a dozen or so years to come. Children who eat
between meals should be broken of the habit."

"All I had, eleven years ago, was a rhinoceros, and that's not a full
meal at all," grumbled the young one. "And, before that, I had waited
sixty-two years to be fed; so it's no wonder I'm hungry."

"How old are you now?" asked Woot, forgetting his own dangerous position
in his interest in the conversation.

"Why, I'm--I'm-- How old am I, Father?" asked the little Dragon.

"Goodness gracious! what a child to ask questions. Do you want to keep
me thinking all the time? Don't you know that thinking is very bad for
Dragons?" returned the big one, impatiently.

"How old am I, Father?" persisted the small Dragon.

"About six hundred and thirty, I believe. Ask your mother."