"Jinjur is a girl," explained the Scarecrow Bear. "She's a fine girl,
too, although a bit restless and liable to get excited. Once, a long
time ago, she raised an army of girls and called herself 'General
Jinjur.' With her army she captured the Emerald City, and drove me out
of it, because I insisted that an army in Oz was highly improper. But
Ozma punished the rash girl, and afterward Jinjur and I became fast
friends. Now Jinjur lives peacefully on a farm, near here, and raises
fields of cream-puffs, chocolate-caramels and macaroons. They say she's
a pretty good farmer, and in addition to that she's an artist, and
paints pictures so perfect that one can scarcely tell them from nature.
She often repaints my face for me, when it gets worn or mussy, and the
lovely expression I wore when the Giantess transformed me was painted by
Jinjur only a month or so ago."

"It was certainly a pleasant expression," agreed Woot.

"Jinjur can paint anything," continued the Scarecrow Bear, with
enthusiasm, as they walked along together. "Once, when I came to her
house, my straw was old and crumpled, so that my body sagged dreadfully.
I needed new straw to replace the old, but Jinjur had no straw on all
her ranch and I was really unable to travel farther until I had been
restuffed. When I explained this to Jinjur, the girl at once painted a
straw-stack which was so natural that I went to it and secured enough
straw to fill all my body. It was a good quality of straw, too, and
lasted me a long time."

This seemed very wonderful to Woot, who knew that such a thing could
never happen in any place but a fairy country like Oz.

The Munchkin Country was much nicer than the Gillikin Country, and all
the fields were separated by blue fences, with grassy lanes and paths of
blue ground, and the land seemed well cultivated. They were on a little
hill looking down upon this favored country, but had not quite reached

A more curious creature they had seldom seen, even in the Land of Oz,
where curious creatures abound. It had the head of a young
man--evidently a Munchkin--with a pleasant face and hair neatly combed.
But the body was very long, for it had twenty legs--ten legs on each
side--and this caused the body to stretch out and lie in a horizontal
position, so that all the legs could touch the ground and stand firm.
From the shoulders extended two small arms; at least, they seemed small
beside so many legs.

This odd creature was dressed in the regulation clothing of the Munchkin
people, a dark blue coat neatly fitting the long body and each pair of
legs having a pair of sky-blue trousers, with blue-tinted stockings and
blue leather shoes turned up at the pointed toes.

"I wonder who you are?" said Polychrome the Canary, fluttering above the
strange creature, who had probably been asleep on the path.