"I sometimes wonder, myself, who I am," replied the many-legged young
man; "but, in reality, I am Tommy Kwikstep, and I live in a hollow tree
that fell to the ground with age. I have polished the inside of it, and
made a door at each end, and that's a very comfortable residence for me
because it just fits my shape."

"How did you happen to have such a shape?" asked the Scarecrow Bear,
sitting on his haunches and regarding Tommy Kwikstep with a serious
look. "Is the shape natural?"

"No; it was wished on me," replied Tommy, with a sigh. "I used to be
very active and loved to run errands for anyone who needed my services.
That was how I got my name of Tommy Kwikstep. I could run an errand more
quickly than any other boy, and so I was very proud of myself. One day,
however, I met an old lady who was a fairy, or a witch, or something of
the sort, and she said if I would run an errand for her--to carry some
magic medicine to another old woman--she would grant me just one Wish,
whatever the Wish happened to be. Of course I consented and, taking the
medicine, I hurried away. It was a long distance, mostly up hill, and my
legs began to grow weary. Without thinking what I was doing I said
aloud: 'Dear me; I wish I had twenty legs!' and in an instant I became
the unusual creature you see beside you. Twenty legs! Twenty on one man!
You may count them, if you doubt my word."

"You've got 'em, all right," said Woot the Monkey, who had already
counted them.

"After I had delivered the magic medicine to the old woman, I returned
and tried to find the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, who had
given me the unlucky wish, so she could take it away again. I've been
searching for her ever since, but never can I find her," continued poor
Tommy Kwikstep, sadly.

"I suppose," said the Tin Owl, blinking at him, "you can travel very
fast, with those twenty legs."

"At first I was able to," was the reply; "but I traveled so much,
searching for the fairy, or witch, or whatever she was, that I soon got
corns on my toes. Now, a corn on one toe is not so bad, but when you
have a hundred toes--as I have--and get corns on most of them, it is far
from pleasant. Instead of running, I now painfully crawl, and although I
try not to be discouraged I do hope I shall find that witch or fairy, or
whatever she was, before long."

"I hope so, too," said the Scarecrow. "But, after all, you have the
pleasure of knowing you are unusual, and therefore remarkable among the
people of Oz. To be just like other persons is small credit to one,
while to be unlike others is a mark of distinction."