"That _sounds_ very pretty," returned Tommy Kwikstep, "but if you had to
put on ten pair of trousers every morning, and tie up twenty shoes, you
would prefer not to be so distinguished."

"Was the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, an old person, with
wrinkled skin, and half her teeth gone?" inquired the Tin Owl.

"No," said Tommy Kwikstep.

"Then she wasn't Old Mombi," remarked the transformed Emperor.

"I'm not interested in who it _wasn't_, so much as I am in who it
_was_," said the twenty-legged young man. "And, whatever or whomsoever
she was, she has managed to keep out of my way."

"If you found her, do you suppose she'd change you back into a
two-legged boy?" asked Woot.

"Perhaps so, if I could run another errand for her and so earn another
wish."

"Would you really like to be as you were before?" asked Polychrome the
Canary, perching upon the Green Monkey's shoulder to observe Tommy
Kwikstep more attentively.

"I would, indeed," was the earnest reply.

"Then I will see what I can do for you," promised the Rainbow's
Daughter, and flying to the ground she took a small twig in her bill and
with it made several mystic figures on each side of Tommy Kwikstep.

"Are _you_ a witch, or fairy, or something of the sort?" he asked as he
watched her wonderingly.

The Canary made no answer, for she was busy, but the Scarecrow Bear
replied: "Yes; she's something of the sort, and a bird of a magician."

The twenty-legged boy's transformation happened so queerly that they
were all surprised at its method. First, Tommy Kwikstep's last two legs
disappeared; then the next two, and the next, and as each pair of legs
vanished his body shortened. All this while Polychrome was running
around him and chirping mystical words, and when all the young man's
legs had disappeared but two he noticed that the Canary was still busy
and cried out in alarm:

"Stop--stop! Leave me _two_ of my legs, or I shall be worse off than
before."

"I know," said the Canary. "I'm only removing with my magic the corns
from your last ten toes."

"Thank you for being so thoughtful," he said gratefully, and now they
noticed that Tommy Kwikstep was quite a nice looking young fellow.

"What will you do now?" asked Woot the Monkey.

"First," he answered, "I must deliver a note which I've carried in my
pocket ever since the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, granted my
foolish wish. And I am resolved never to speak again without taking time
to think carefully on what I am going to say, for I realize that speech
without thought is dangerous. And after I've delivered the note, I shall
run errands again for anyone who needs my services."

So he thanked Polychrome again and started away in a different direction
from their own, and that was the last they saw of Tommy Kwikstep.

Jinjur's Ranch

CHAPTER 11