"I have been taught to believe that there is an antidote for every
magic charm, yet Mrs. Yoop insists that no power can alter her
transformations. I realize that my own fairy magic cannot do it,
although I have thought that we Sky Fairies have more power than is
accorded to Earth Fairies. The yookoohoo magic is admitted to be very
strange in its workings and different from the magic usually practiced,
but perhaps Glinda or Ozma may understand it better than I. In them lies
our only hope. Unless they can help us, we must remain forever as we
are."

"A Canary-Bird on a Rainbow wouldn't be so bad," asserted the Tin Owl,
winking and blinking with his round tin eyes, "so if you can manage to
find your Rainbow again you need have little to worry about."

"That's nonsense, Friend Chopper," exclaimed Woot. "I know just how
Polychrome feels. A beautiful girl is much superior to a little yellow
bird, and a boy--such as I was--far better than a Green Monkey. Neither
of us can be happy again unless we recover our rightful forms."

"I feel the same way," announced the stuffed Bear. "What do you suppose
my friend the Patchwork Girl would think of me, if she saw me wearing
this beastly shape?"

"She'd laugh till she cried," admitted the Tin Owl. "For my part, I'll
have to give up the notion of marrying Nimmie Amee, but I'll try not to
let that make me unhappy. If it's my duty, I'd like to do my duty, but
if magic prevents my getting married I'll flutter along all by myself
and be just as contented."

Their serious misfortunes made them all silent for a time, and as their
thoughts were busy in dwelling upon the evils with which fate had
burdened them, none noticed that Jinjur had suddenly appeared in the
doorway and was looking at them in astonishment. The next moment her
astonishment changed to anger, for there, in her best rocking-chair, sat
a Green Monkey. A great shiny Owl perched upon another chair and a Brown
Bear squatted upon her parlor rug. Jinjur did not notice the Canary, but
she caught up a broomstick and dashed into the room, shouting as she
came:

"Get out of here, you wild creatures! How dare you enter my house?"

With a blow of her broom she knocked the Brown Bear over, and the Tin
Owl tried to fly out of her reach and made a great clatter with his tin
wings. The Green Monkey was so startled by the sudden attack that he
sprang into the fireplace--where there was fortunately no fire--and
tried to escape by climbing up the chimney. But he found the opening too
small, and so was forced to drop down again. Then he crouched trembling
in the fireplace, his pretty green hair all blackened with soot and
covered with ashes. From this position Woot watched to see what would
happen next.