"Stop, Jinjur--stop!" cried the Brown Bear, when the broom again
threatened him. "Don't you know me? I'm your old friend the Scarecrow?"

"You're trying to deceive me, you naughty beast! I can see plainly that
you are a bear, and a mighty poor specimen of a bear, too," retorted the
girl.

"That's because I'm not properly stuffed," he assured her. "When Mrs.
Yoop transformed me, she didn't realize I should have more stuffing."

"Who is Mrs. Yoop?" inquired Jinjur, pausing with the broom still
upraised.

"A Giantess in the Gillikin Country."

"Oh; I begin to understand. And Mrs. Yoop transformed you? You are
really the famous Scarecrow of Oz?"

"I _was_, Jinjur. Just now I'm as you see me--a miserable little Brown
Bear with a poor quality of stuffing. That Tin Owl is none other than
our dear Tin Woodman--Nick Chopper, the Emperor of the Winkies--while
this Green Monkey is a nice little boy we recently became acquainted
with, Woot the Wanderer."

"And I," said the Canary, flying close to Jinjur, "am Polychrome, the
Daughter of the Rainbow, in the form of a bird."

"Goodness me!" cried Jinjur, amazed; "that Giantess must be a powerful
Sorceress, and as wicked as she is powerful."

"She's a yookoohoo," said Polychrome. "Fortunately, we managed to escape
from her castle, and we are now on our way to Glinda the Good to see if
she possesses the power to restore us to our former shapes."

"Then I must beg your pardons; all of you must forgive me," said Jinjur,
putting away the broom. "I took you to be a lot of wild, unmannerly
animals, as was quite natural. You are very welcome to my home and I'm
sorry I haven't the power to help you out of your troubles. Please use
my house and all that I have, as if it were your own."

At this declaration of peace, the Bear got upon his feet and the Owl
resumed his perch upon the chair and the Monkey crept out of the
fireplace. Jinjur looked at Woot critically, and scowled.

"For a Green Monkey," said she, "you're the blackest creature I ever
saw. And you'll get my nice clean room all dirty with soot and ashes.
Whatever possessed you to jump up the chimney?"

"I--I was scared," explained Woot, somewhat ashamed.

"Well, you need renovating, and that's what will happen to you, right
away. Come with me!" she commanded.

"What are you going to do?" asked Woot.

"Give you a good scrubbing," said Jinjur.

Now, neither boys nor monkeys relish being scrubbed, so Woot shrank away
from the energetic girl, trembling fearfully. But Jinjur grabbed him by
his paw and dragged him out to the back yard, where, in spite of his
whines and struggles, she plunged him into a tub of cold water and began
to scrub him with a stiff brush and a cake of yellow soap.