In the room in which the two sat--which was one of Ozma's private suite
of apartments--hung the famous Magic Picture. This was the source of
constant interest to little Dorothy. One had but to stand before it and
wish to see what any person was doing, and at once a scene would flash
upon the magic canvas which showed exactly where that person was, and
like our own moving pictures would reproduce the actions of that person
as long as you cared to watch them. So today, when Dorothy tired of her
embroidery, she drew the curtains from before the Magic Picture and
wished to see what her friend Button Bright was doing. Button Bright,
she saw, was playing ball with Ojo, the Munchkin boy, so Dorothy next
wished to see what her Aunt Em was doing. The picture showed Aunt Em
quietly engaged in darning socks for Uncle Henry, so Dorothy wished to
see what her old friend the Tin Woodman was doing.

The Tin Woodman was then just leaving his tin castle in the company of
the Scarecrow and Woot the Wanderer. Dorothy had never seen this boy
before, so she wondered who he was. Also she was curious to know where
the three were going, for she noticed Woot's knapsack and guessed they
had started on a long journey. She asked Ozma about it, but Ozma did not
know.

That afternoon Dorothy again saw the travelers in the Magic Picture, but
they were merely tramping through the country and Dorothy was not much
interested in them. A couple of days later, however, the girl, being
again with Ozma, wished to see her friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin
Woodman in the Magic Picture, and on this occasion found them in the
great castle of Mrs. Yoop, the Giantess, who was at the time about to
transform them. Both Dorothy and Ozma now became greatly interested and
watched the transformations with indignation and horror.

"What a wicked Giantess!" exclaimed Dorothy.

"Yes," answered Ozma, "she must be punished for this cruelty to our
friends, and to the poor boy who is with them."

After this they followed the adventure of the little Brown Bear and the
Tin Owl and the Green Monkey with breathless interest, and were
delighted when they escaped from Mrs. Yoop. They did not know, then, who
the Canary was, but realized it must be the transformation of some
person of consequence, whom the Giantess had also enchanted.

When, finally, the day came when the adventurers headed south into the
Munchkin Country, Dorothy asked anxiously:

"Can't something be done for them, Ozma? Can't you change 'em back into
their own shapes? They've suffered enough from these dreadful
transformations, seems to me."