"I've been studying ways to help them, ever since they were
transformed," replied Ozma. "Mrs. Yoop is now the only yookoohoo in my
dominions, and the yookoohoo magic is very peculiar and hard for others
to understand, yet I am resolved to make the attempt to break these
enchantments. I may not succeed, but I shall do the best I can. From the
directions our friends are taking, I believe they are going to pass by
Jinjur's Ranch, so if we start now we may meet them there. Would you
like to go with me, Dorothy?"

"Of course," answered the little girl; "I wouldn't miss it for
anything."

"Then order the Red Wagon," said Ozma of Oz, "and we will start at
once."

Dorothy ran to do as she was bid, while Ozma went to her Magic Room to
make ready the things she believed she would need. In half an hour the
Red Wagon stood before the grand entrance of the palace, and before it
was hitched the Wooden Sawhorse, which was Ozma's favorite steed.

This Sawhorse, while made of wood, was very much alive and could travel
swiftly and without tiring. To keep the ends of his wooden legs from
wearing down short, Ozma had shod the Sawhorse with plates of pure gold.
His harness was studded with brilliant emeralds and other jewels and so,
while he himself was not at all handsome, his outfit made a splendid
appearance.

Since the Sawhorse could understand her spoken words, Ozma used no reins
to guide him. She merely told him where to go. When she came from the
palace with Dorothy, they both climbed into the Red Wagon and then the
little dog, Toto, ran up and asked:

"Are you going to leave me behind, Dorothy?"

Dorothy looked at Ozma, who smiled in return and said:

"Toto may go with us, if you wish him to."

So Dorothy lifted the little dog into the wagon, for, while he could run
fast, he could not keep up with the speed of the wonderful Sawhorse.

Away they went, over hills and through meadows, covering the ground with
astonishing speed. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Red Wagon
arrived before Jinjur's house just as that energetic young lady had
finished scrubbing the Green Monkey and was about to lead him to the
caramel patch.

The Restoration

CHAPTER 13

The Tin Owl gave a hoot of delight when he saw the Red Wagon draw up
before Jinjur's house, and the Brown Bear grunted and growled with glee
and trotted toward Ozma as fast as he could wobble. As for the Canary,
it flew swiftly to Dorothy's shoulder and perched there, saying in her
ear:

"Thank goodness you have come to our rescue!"

"But who are you?" asked Dorothy.

"Don't you know?" returned the Canary.

"No; for the first time we noticed you in the Magic Picture, you were
just a bird, as you are now. But we've guessed that the giant woman had
transformed you, as she did the others."