"Yes; I'm Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter," announced the Canary.

"Goodness me!" cried Dorothy. "How dreadful."

"Well, I make a rather pretty bird, I think," returned Polychrome, "but
of course I'm anxious to resume my own shape and get back upon my
rainbow."

"Ozma will help you, I'm sure," said Dorothy. "How does it feel,
Scarecrow, to be a Bear?" she asked, addressing her old friend.

"I don't like it," declared the Scarecrow Bear. "This brutal form is
quite beneath the dignity of a wholesome straw man."

"And think of me," said the Owl, perching upon the dashboard of the Red
Wagon with much noisy clattering of his tin feathers. "Don't I look
horrid, Dorothy, with eyes several sizes too big for my body, and so
weak that I ought to wear spectacles?"

"Well," said Dorothy critically, as she looked him over, "you're nothing
to brag of, I must confess. But Ozma will soon fix you up again."

The Green Monkey had hung back, bashful at meeting two lovely girls
while in the form of a beast; but Jinjur now took his hand and led him
forward while she introduced him to Ozma, and Woot managed to make a low
bow, not really ungraceful, before her girlish Majesty, the Ruler of Oz.

"You have all been forced to endure a sad experience," said Ozma, "and
so I am anxious to do all in my power to break Mrs. Yoop's enchantments.
But first tell me how you happened to stray into that lonely Valley
where Yoop Castle stands."

Between them they related the object of their journey, the Scarecrow
Bear telling of the Tin Woodman's resolve to find Nimmie Amee and marry
her, as a just reward for her loyalty to him. Woot told of their
adventures with the Loons of Loonville, and the Tin Owl described the
manner in which they had been captured and transformed by the Giantess.
Then Polychrome related her story, and when all had been told, and
Dorothy had several times reproved Toto for growling at the Tin Owl,
Ozma remained thoughtful for a while, pondering upon what she had
heard. Finally she looked up, and with one of her delightful smiles,
said to the anxious group:

"I am not sure my magic will be able to restore every one of you,
because your transformations are of such a strange and unusual
character. Indeed, Mrs. Yoop was quite justified in believing no power
could alter her enchantments. However, I am sure I can restore the
Scarecrow to his original shape. He was stuffed with straw from the
beginning, and even the yookoohoo magic could not alter that. The
Giantess was merely able to make a bear's shape of a man's shape, but
the bear is stuffed with straw, just as the man was. So I feel confident
I can make a man of the bear again."

"Hurrah!" cried the Brown Bear, and tried clumsily to dance a jig of
delight.