"As for the Tin Woodman, his case is much the same," resumed Ozma, still
smiling. "The power of the Giantess could not make him anything but a
tin creature, whatever shape she transformed him into, so it will not be
impossible to restore him to his manly form. Anyhow, I shall test my
magic at once, and see if it will do what I have promised."

She drew from her bosom a small silver Wand and, making passes with the
Wand over the head of the Bear, she succeeded in the brief space of a
moment in breaking his enchantment. The original Scarecrow of Oz again
stood before them, well stuffed with straw and with his features nicely
painted upon the bag which formed his head.

The Scarecrow was greatly delighted, as you may suppose, and he strutted
proudly around while the powerful fairy, Ozma of Oz, broke the
enchantment that had transformed the Tin Woodman and made a Tin Owl into
a Tin Man again.

"Now, then," chirped the Canary, eagerly; "I'm next, Ozma!"

"But your case is different," replied Ozma, no longer smiling but
wearing a grave expression on her sweet face. "I shall have to
experiment on you, Polychrome, and I may fail in all my attempts."

She then tried two or three different methods of magic, hoping one of
them would succeed in breaking Polychrome's enchantment, but still the
Rainbow's Daughter remained a Canary-Bird. Finally, however, she
experimented in another way. She transformed the Canary into a Dove, and
then transformed the Dove into a Speckled Hen, and then changed the
Speckled Hen into a rabbit, and then the rabbit into a Fawn. And at the
last, after mixing several powders and sprinkling them upon the Fawn,
the yookoohoo enchantment was suddenly broken and before them stood one
of the daintiest and loveliest creatures in any fairyland in the world.
Polychrome was as sweet and merry in disposition as she was beautiful,
and when she danced and capered around in delight, her beautiful hair
floated around her like a golden mist and her many-hued raiment, as soft
as cobwebs, reminded one of drifting clouds in a summer sky.

Woot was so awed by the entrancing sight of this exquisite Sky Fairy
that he quite forgot his own sad plight until he noticed Ozma gazing
upon him with an intent expression that denoted sympathy and sorrow.
Dorothy whispered in her friend's ear, but the Ruler of Oz shook her
head sadly.

Jinjur, noticing this and understanding Ozma's looks, took the paw of
the Green Monkey in her own hand and patted it softly.

"Never mind," she said to him. "You are a very beautiful color, and a
monkey can climb better than a boy and do a lot of other things no boy
can ever do."

"What's the matter?" asked Woot, a sinking feeling at his heart. "Is
Ozma's magic all used up?"

Ozma herself answered him.