"Your form of enchantment, my poor boy," she said pityingly, "is
different from that of the others. Indeed, it is a form that is
impossible to alter by any magic known to fairies or yookoohoos. The
wicked Giantess was well aware, when she gave you the form of a Green
Monkey, that the Green Monkey must exist in the Land of Oz for all
future time."

Woot drew a long sigh.

"Well, that's pretty hard luck," he said bravely, "but if it can't be
helped I must endure it; that's all. I don't like being a monkey, but
what's the use of kicking against my fate?"

They were all very sorry for him, and Dorothy anxiously asked Ozma:

"Couldn't Glinda save him?"

"No," was the reply. "Glinda's power in transformations is no greater
than my own. Before I left my palace I went to my Magic Room and studied
Woot's case very carefully. I found that no power can do away with the
Green Monkey. He might transfer, or exchange his form with some other
person, it is true; but the Green Monkey we cannot get rid of by any
magic arts known to science."

"But--see here," said the Scarecrow, who had listened intently to this
explanation, "why not put the monkey's form on some one else?"

"Who would agree to make the change?" asked Ozma. "If by force we caused
anyone else to become a Green Monkey, we would be as cruel and wicked as
Mrs. Yoop. And what good would an exchange do?" she continued. "Suppose,
for instance, we worked the enchantment, and made Toto into a Green
Monkey. At the same moment Woot would become a little dog."

"Leave me out of your magic, please," said Toto, with a reproachful
growl. "I wouldn't become a Green Monkey for anything."

"And I wouldn't become a dog," said Woot. "A green monkey is much better
than a dog, it seems to me."

"That is only a matter of opinion," answered Toto.

"Now, here's another idea," said the Scarecrow. "My brains are working
finely today, you must admit. Why not transform Toto into Woot the
Wanderer, and then have them exchange forms? The dog would become a
green monkey and the monkey would have his own natural shape again."

"To be sure!" cried Jinjur. "That's a fine idea."

"Leave me out of it," said Toto. "I won't do it."

"Wouldn't you be willing to become a green monkey--see what a pretty
color it is--so that this poor boy could be restored to his own shape?"
asked Jinjur, pleadingly.

"No," said Toto.

"I don't like that plan the least bit," declared Dorothy, "for then I
wouldn't have any little dog."

"But you'd have a green monkey in his place," persisted Jinjur, who
liked Woot and wanted to help him.

"I don't want a green monkey," said Dorothy positively.