"Don't speak of this again, I beg of you," said Woot. "This is my own
misfortune and I would rather suffer it alone than deprive Princess
Dorothy of her dog, or deprive the dog of his proper shape. And perhaps
even her Majesty, Ozma of Oz, might not be able to transform anyone else
into the shape of Woot the Wanderer."

"Yes; I believe I might do that," Ozma returned; "but Woot is quite
right; we are not justified in inflicting upon anyone--man or dog--the
form of a green monkey. Also it is certain that in order to relieve the
boy of the form he now wears, we must give it to someone else, who would
be forced to wear it always."

"I wonder," said Dorothy, thoughtfully, "if we couldn't find someone in
the Land of Oz who would be willing to become a green monkey? Seems to
me a monkey is active and spry, and he can climb trees and do a lot of
clever things, and green isn't a bad color for a monkey--it makes him
unusual."

"I wouldn't ask anyone to take this dreadful form," said Woot; "it
wouldn't be right, you know. I've been a monkey for some time, now, and
I don't like it. It makes me ashamed to be a beast of this sort when by
right of birth I'm a boy; so I'm sure it would be wicked to ask anyone
else to take my place."

They were all silent, for they knew he spoke the truth. Dorothy was
almost ready to cry with pity and Ozma's sweet face was sad and
disturbed. The Scarecrow rubbed and patted his stuffed head to try to
make it think better, while the Tin Woodman went into the house and
began to oil his tin joints so that the sorrow of his friends might not
cause him to weep. Weeping is liable to rust tin, and the Emperor
prided himself upon his highly polished body--now doubly dear to him
because for a time he had been deprived of it.

Polychrome had danced down the garden paths and back again a dozen
times, for she was seldom still a moment, yet she had heard Ozma's
speech and understood very well Woot's unfortunate position. But the
Rainbow's Daughter, even while dancing, could think and reason very
clearly, and suddenly she solved the problem in the nicest possible way.
Coming close to Ozma, she said: