"He is simply wonderful," declared the Tin Woodman.

"I shall be glad to make his acquaintance," said Woot.

"If you wish to meet with real cleverness," remarked the Scarecrow, "you
should visit the Munchkin farmer who first made _me_. I won't say that
my friend the Emperor isn't all right for a tin man, but any judge of
beauty can understand that a Scarecrow is far more artistic and
refined."

"You are too soft and flimsy," said the Tin Woodman.

"You are too hard and stiff," said the Scarecrow, and this was as near
to quarreling as the two friends ever came. Polychrome laughed at them
both, as well she might, and Woot hastened to change the subject.

At night they all camped underneath the trees. The boy ate cream-puffs
for supper and offered Polychrome some, but she preferred other food and
at daybreak sipped the dew that was clustered thick on the forest
flowers. Then they tramped onward again, and presently the Scarecrow
paused and said:

"It was on this very spot that Dorothy and I first met the Tin Woodman,
who was rusted so badly that none of his joints would move. But after we
had oiled him up, he was as good as new and accompanied us to the
Emerald City."

"Ah, that was a sad experience," asserted the Tin Woodman soberly. "I
was caught in a rainstorm while chopping down a tree for exercise, and
before I realized it, I was firmly rusted in every joint. There I stood,
axe in hand, but unable to move, for days and weeks and months! Indeed,
I have never known exactly how long the time was; but finally along came
Dorothy and I was saved. See! This is the very tree I was chopping at
the time I rusted."

"You cannot be far from your old home, in that case," said Woot.

"No; my little cabin stands not a great way off, but there is no
occasion for us to visit it. Our errand is with Nimmie Amee, and her
house is somewhat farther away, to the left of us."

"Didn't you say she lives with a Wicked Witch, who makes her a slave?"
asked the boy.

"She did, but she doesn't," was the reply. "I am told the Witch was
destroyed when Dorothy's house fell on her, so now Nimmie Amee must live
all alone. I haven't seen her, of course, since the Witch was crushed,
for at that time I was standing rusted in the forest and had been there
a long time, but the poor girl must have felt very happy to be free from
her cruel mistress."

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "let's travel on and find Nimmie Amee. Lead
on, your Majesty, since you know the way, and we will follow."