"It doesn't matter, however," said the Tin Woodman; "our tin bodies are
more brilliant and durable, and quite satisfy us."

"Yes, the tin bodies are best," agreed the Tin Soldier. "Nothing can
hurt them."

"Unless they get dented or rusted," said Woot, but both the tin men
frowned on him.

Scraps of tin, of all shapes and sizes, lay scattered around the
workshop. Also there were hammers and anvils and soldering irons and a
charcoal furnace and many other tools such as a tinsmith works with.
Against two of the side walls had been built stout work-benches and in
the center of the room was a long table. At the end of the shop, which
adjoined the dwelling, were several cupboards.

After examining the interior of the workshop until his curiosity was
satisfied, Woot said:

"I think I will go outside until Ku-Klip comes. It does not seem quite
proper for us to take possession of his house while he is absent."

"That is true," agreed the Scarecrow, and they were all about to leave
the room when the Tin Woodman said: "Wait a minute," and they halted in
obedience to the command.

The Tin Woodman Talks to Himself

CHAPTER 18

The Tin Woodman had just noticed the cupboards and was curious to know
what they contained, so he went to one of them and opened the door.
There were shelves inside, and upon one of the shelves which was about
on a level with his tin chin the Emperor discovered a Head--it looked
like a doll's head, only it was larger, and he soon saw it was the Head
of some person. It was facing the Tin Woodman and as the cupboard door
swung back, the eyes of the Head slowly opened and looked at him. The
Tin Woodman was not at all surprised, for in the Land of Oz one runs
into magic at every turn.

"Dear me!" said the Tin Woodman, staring hard. "It seems as if I had met
you, somewhere, before. Good morning, sir!"

"You have the advantage of me," replied the Head. "I never saw you
before in my life."

"Still, your face is very familiar," persisted the Tin Woodman. "Pardon
me, but may I ask if you--eh--eh--if you ever had a Body?"

"Yes, at one time," answered the Head, "but that is so long ago I can't
remember it. Did you think," with a pleasant smile, "that I was born
just as I am? That a Head would be created without a Body?"

"No, of course not," said the other. "But how came you to lose your
body?"

"Well, I can't recollect the details; you'll have to ask Ku-Klip about
it," returned the Head. "For, curious as it may seem to you, my memory
is not good since my separation from the rest of me. I still possess my
brains and my intellect is as good as ever, but my memory of some of the
events I formerly experienced is quite hazy."

"How long have you been in this cupboard?" asked the Emperor.