"I can understand the Soldier's interest," asserted Polychrome, dancing
around the grimy workshop until her draperies formed a cloud around her
dainty form. "For sentimental reasons a man might like to see his old
head once more, just as one likes to revisit an old home."

"And then to kiss it good-bye," added the Scarecrow.

"I hope that tin thing won't try to kiss _me_ goodbye!" exclaimed the
Tin Woodman's former head. "And I don't see what right you folks have to
disturb my peace and comfort, either."

"You belong to me," the Tin Woodman declared.

"I do not!"

"You and I are one."

"We've been parted," asserted the Head. "It would be unnatural for me to
have any interest in a man made of tin. Please close the door and leave
me alone."

"I did not think that my old Head could be so disagreeable," said the
Emperor. "I--I'm quite ashamed of myself; meaning _you_."

"You ought to be glad that I've enough sense to know what my rights
are," retorted the Head. "In this cupboard I am leading a simple life,
peaceful and dignified, and when a mob of people in whom I am not
interested disturb me, _they_ are the disagreeable ones; not I."

With a sigh the Tin Woodman closed and latched the cupboard door and
turned away.

"Well," said the Tin Soldier, "if my old head would have treated me as
coldly and in so unfriendly a manner as your old head has treated you,
friend Chopper, I'm glad I could not find it."

"Yes; I'm rather surprised at my head, myself," replied the Tin Woodman,
thoughtfully. "I thought I had a more pleasant disposition when I was
made of meat."

But just then old Ku-Klip the Tinsmith arrived, and he seemed surprised
to find so many visitors. Ku-Klip was a stout man and a short man. He
had his sleeves rolled above his elbows, showing muscular arms, and he
wore a leathern apron that covered all the front of him, and was so long
that Woot was surprised he didn't step on it and trip whenever he
walked. And Ku-Klip had a gray beard that was almost as long as his
apron, and his head was bald on top and his ears stuck out from his head
like two fans. Over his eyes, which were bright and twinkling, he wore
big spectacles. It was easy to see that the tinsmith was a kind hearted
man, as well as a merry and agreeable one.

"Oh-ho!" he cried in a joyous bass voice; "here are both my tin men
come to visit me, and they and their friends are welcome indeed. I'm
very proud of you two characters, I assure you, for you are so perfect
that you are proof that I'm a good workman. Sit down. Sit down, all of
you--if you can find anything to sit on--and tell me why you are here."