So they found seats and told him all of their adventures that they
thought he would like to know. Ku-Klip was glad to learn that Nick
Chopper, the Tin Woodman, was now Emperor of the Winkies and a friend of
Ozma of Oz, and the tinsmith was also interested in the Scarecrow and
Polychrome.

He turned the straw man around, examining him curiously, and patted him
on all sides, and then said:

"You are certainly wonderful, but I think you would be more durable and
steady on your legs if you were made of tin. Would you like me to--"

"No, indeed!" interrupted the Scarecrow hastily; "I like myself better
as I am."

But to Polychrome the tinsmith said:

"Nothing could improve _you_, my dear, for you are the most beautiful
maiden I have ever seen. It is pure happiness just to look at you."

"That is praise, indeed, from so skillful a workman," returned the
Rainbow's Daughter, laughing and dancing in and out the room.

"Then it must be this boy you wish me to help," said Ku-Klip, looking at
Woot.

"No," said Woot, "we are not here to seek your skill, but have merely
come to you for information."

Then, between them, they related their search for Nimmie Amee, whom the
Tin Woodman explained he had resolved to marry, yet who had promised to
become the bride of the Tin Soldier before he unfortunately became
rusted. And when the story was told, they asked Ku-Klip if he knew what
had become of Nimmie Amee.

"Not exactly," replied the old man, "but I know that she wept bitterly
when the Tin Soldier did not come to marry her, as he had promised to
do. The old Witch was so provoked at the girl's tears that she beat
Nimmie Amee with her crooked stick and then hobbled away to gather some
magic herbs, with which she intended to transform the girl into an old
hag, so that no one would again love her or care to marry her. It was
while she was away on this errand that Dorothy's house fell on the
Wicked Witch, and she turned to dust and blew away. When I heard this
good news, I sent Nimmie Amee to find the Silver Shoes which the Witch
had worn, but Dorothy had taken them with her to the Emerald City."

"Yes, we know all about those Silver Shoes," said the Scarecrow.

"Well," continued Ku-Klip, "after that, Nimmie Amee decided to go away
from the forest and live with some people she was acquainted with who
had a house on Mount Munch. I have never seen the girl since."

"Do you know the name of the people on Mount Munch, with whom she went
to live?" asked the Tin Woodman.