"No, Nimmie Amee did not mention her friend's name, and I did not ask
her. She took with her all that she could carry of the goods that were
in the Witch's house, and she told me I could have the rest. But when I
went there I found nothing worth taking except some magic powders that I
did not know how to use, and a bottle of Magic Glue."

"What is Magic Glue?" asked Woot.

"It is a magic preparation with which to mend people when they cut
themselves. One time, long ago, I cut off one of my fingers by accident,
and I carried it to the Witch, who took down her bottle and glued it on
again for me. See!" showing them his finger, "it is as good as ever it
was. No one else that I ever heard of had this Magic Glue, and of course
when Nick Chopper cut himself to pieces with his enchanted axe and
Captain Fyter cut himself to pieces with his enchanted sword, the Witch
would not mend them, or allow me to glue them together, because she had
herself wickedly enchanted the axe and sword. Nothing remained but for
me to make them new parts out of tin; but, as you see, tin answered the
purpose very well, and I am sure their tin bodies are a great
improvement on their meat bodies."

"Very true," said the Tin Soldier.

"I quite agree with you," said the Tin Woodman. "I happened to find my
old head in your cupboard, a while ago, and certainly it is not as
desirable a head as the tin one I now wear."

"By the way," said the Tin Soldier, "what ever became of _my_ old head,
Ku-Klip?"

"And of the different parts of our bodies?" added the Tin Woodman.

"Let me think a minute," replied Ku-Klip. "If I remember right, you two
boys used to bring me most of your parts, when they were cut off, and I
saved them in that barrel in the corner. You must not have brought me
all the parts, for when I made Chopfyt I had hard work finding enough
pieces to complete the job. I finally had to finish him with one arm."

"Who is Chopfyt?" inquired Woot.

"Oh, haven't I told you about Chopfyt?" exclaimed Ku-Klip. "Of course
not! And he's quite a curiosity, too. You'll be interested in hearing
about Chopfyt. This is how he happened: