"One day, after the Witch had been destroyed and Nimmie Amee had gone to
live with her friends on Mount Munch, I was looking around the shop for
something and came upon the bottle of Magic Glue which I had brought
from the old Witch's house. It occurred to me to piece together the odds
and ends of you two people, which of course were just as good as ever,
and see if I couldn't make a man out of them. If I succeeded, I would
have an assistant to help me with my work, and I thought it would be a
clever idea to put to some practical use the scraps of Nick Chopper and
Captain Fyter. There were two perfectly good heads in my cupboard, and a
lot of feet and legs and parts of bodies in the barrel, so I set to work
to see what I could do.

"First, I pieced together a body, gluing it with the Witch's Magic Glue,
which worked perfectly. That was the hardest part of my job, however,
because the bodies didn't match up well and some parts were missing.
But by using a piece of Captain Fyter here and a piece of Nick Chopper
there, I finally got together a very decent body, with heart and all the
trimmings complete."

"Whose heart did you use in making the body?" asked the Tin Woodman
anxiously.

"I can't tell, for the parts had no tags on them and one heart looks
much like another. After the body was completed, I glued two fine legs
and feet onto it. One leg was Nick Chopper's and one was Captain
Fyter's and, finding one leg longer than the other, I trimmed it down to
make them match. I was much disappointed to find that I had but one arm.
There was an extra leg in the barrel, but I could find only one arm.
Having glued this onto the body, I was ready for the head, and I had
some difficulty in making up my mind which head to use. Finally I shut
my eyes and reached out my hand toward the cupboard shelf, and the first
head I touched I glued upon my new man."

"It was mine!" declared the Tin Soldier, gloomily.

"No, it was mine," asserted Ku-Klip, "for I had given you another in
exchange for it--the beautiful tin head you now wear. When the glue had
dried, my man was quite an interesting fellow. I named him Chopfyt,
using a part of Nick Chopper's name and a part of Captain Fyter's name,
because he was a mixture of both your cast-off parts. Chopfyt was
interesting, as I said, but he did not prove a very agreeable companion.
He complained bitterly because I had given him but one arm--as if it
were my fault!--and he grumbled because the suit of blue Munchkin
clothes, which I got for him from a neighbor, did not fit him
perfectly."