"Ah, that was because he was wearing my old head," remarked the Tin
Soldier. "I remember that head used to be very particular about its
clothes."

"As an assistant," the old tinsmith continued, "Chopfyt was not a
success. He was awkward with tools and was always hungry. He demanded
something to eat six or eight times a day, so I wondered if I had fitted
his insides properly. Indeed, Chopfyt ate so much that little food was
left for myself; so, when he proposed, one day, to go out into the world
and seek adventures, I was delighted to be rid of him. I even made him a
tin arm to take the place of the missing one, and that pleased him very
much, so that we parted good friends."

"What became of Chopfyt after that?" the Scarecrow inquired.

"I never heard. He started off toward the east, into the plains of the
Munchkin Country, and that was the last I ever saw of him."

"It seems to me," said the Tin Woodman reflectively, "that you did wrong
in making a man out of our cast-off parts. It is evident that Chopfyt
could, with justice, claim relationship with both of us."

"Don't worry about that," advised Ku-Klip cheerfully; "it is not likely
that you will ever meet the fellow. And, if you should meet him, he
doesn't know who he is made of, for I never told him the secret of his
manufacture. Indeed, you are the only ones who know of it, and you may
keep the secret to yourselves, if you wish to."

"Never mind Chopfyt," said the Scarecrow. "Our business now is to find
poor Nimmie Amee and let her choose her tin husband. To do that, it
seems, from the information Ku-Klip has given us, we must travel to
Mount Munch."

"If that's the programme, let us start at once," suggested Woot.

So they all went outside, where they found Polychrome dancing about
among the trees and talking with the birds and laughing as merrily as if
she had not lost her Rainbow and so been separated from all her fairy
sisters.

They told her they were going to Mount Munch, and she replied:

"Very well; I am as likely to find my Rainbow there as here, and any
other place is as likely as there. It all depends on the weather. Do you
think it looks like rain?"

They shook their heads, and Polychrome laughed again and danced on after
them when they resumed their journey.

The Invisible Country

CHAPTER 19

They were proceeding so easily and comfortably on their way to Mount
Munch that Woot said in a serious tone of voice:

"I'm afraid something is going to happen."

"Why?" asked Polychrome, dancing around the group of travelers.