Surprise had caused him to halt, and with a thoughtful and puzzled
expression on his face he looked down at his feet. It startled him anew
to discover that he had no feet. He reached out his hands, but he could
not see them. He could feel his hands and arms and body; he stamped his
feet on the grass and knew they were there, but in some strange way they
had become invisible.

While Woot stood, wondering, a crash of metal sounded in his ears and he
heard two heavy bodies tumble to the earth just beside him.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the voice of the Tin Woodman.

"Mercy me!" cried the voice of the Tin Soldier.

"Why didn't you look where you were going?" asked the Tin Woodman
reproachfully.

"I did, but I couldn't see you," said the Tin Soldier. "Something has
happened to my tin eyes. I can't see you, even now, nor can I see anyone
else!"

"It's the same way with me," admitted the Tin Woodman.

Woot couldn't see either of them, although he heard them plainly, and
just then something smashed against him unexpectedly and knocked him
over; but it was only the straw-stuffed body of the Scarecrow that fell
upon him and while he could not see the Scarecrow he managed to push him
off and rose to his feet just as Polychrome whirled against him and made
him tumble again.

Sitting upon the ground, the boy asked:

"Can _you_ see us, Poly?"

"No, indeed," answered the Rainbow's Daughter; "we've all become
invisible."

"How did it happen, do you suppose?" inquired the Scarecrow, lying where
he had fallen.

"We have met with no enemy," answered Polychrome, "so it must be that
this part of the country has the magic quality of making people
invisible--even fairies falling under the charm. We can see the grass,
and the flowers, and the stretch of plain before us, and we can still
see Mount Munch in the distance; but we cannot see ourselves or one
another."

"Well, what are we to do about it?" demanded Woot.

"I think this magic affects only a small part of the plain," replied
Polychrome; "perhaps there is only a streak of the country where an
enchantment makes people become invisible. So, if we get together and
hold hands, we can travel toward Mount Munch until the enchanted streak
is passed."

"All right," said Woot, jumping up, "give me your hand, Polychrome.
Where are you?"

"Here," she answered. "Whistle, Woot, and keep whistling until I come to
you."

So Woot whistled, and presently Polychrome found him and grasped his
hand.

"Someone must help me up," said the Scarecrow, lying near them; so they
found the straw man and sat him upon his feet, after which he held fast
to Polychrome's other hand.

Nick Chopper and the Tin Soldier had managed to scramble up without
assistance, but it was awkward for them and the Tin Woodman said:

"I don't seem to stand straight, somehow. But my joints all work, so I
guess I can walk."