"_Please_ lift us across," pleaded Polychrome.

"No," replied the beast; "since you refuse my generous offer, I can be
as stubborn as you are."

After that they were all silent for a time, but then the Scarecrow said
bravely:

"Friends, let us agree to the beast's terms. Give him my straw, and
carry the rest of me with you across the ditch. Once on the other side,
the Tin Soldier can cut some of the hay with his sharp sword, and you
can stuff me with that material until we reach a place where there is
straw. It is true I have been stuffed with straw all my life and it will
be somewhat humiliating to be filled with common hay, but I am willing
to sacrifice my pride in a good cause. Moreover, to abandon our errand
and so deprive the great Emperor of the Winkies--or this noble
Soldier--of his bride, would be equally humiliating, if not more so."

"You're a very honest and clever man!" exclaimed the Hip-po-gy-raf,
admiringly. "When I have eaten your head, perhaps I also will become
clever."

"You're not to eat my head, you know," returned the Scarecrow hastily.
"My head isn't stuffed with straw and I cannot part with it. When one
loses his head he loses his brains."

"Very well, then; you may keep your head," said the beast.

The Scarecrow's companions thanked him warmly for his loyal sacrifice to
their mutual good, and then he laid down and permitted them to pull the
straw from his body. As fast as they did this, the Hip-po-gy-raf ate up
the straw, and when all was consumed Polychrome made a neat bundle of
the clothes and boots and gloves and hat and said she would carry them,
while Woot tucked the Scarecrow's head under his arm and promised to
guard its safety.

"Now, then," said the Tin Woodman, "keep your promise, Beast, and lift
us over the ditch."

"M-m-m-mum, but that was a fine dinner!" said the Hip-po, smacking his
thick lips in satisfaction, "and I'm as good as my word. Sit on my head,
one at a time, and I'll land you safely on the other side."

He approached close to the edge of the ditch and squatted down.
Polychrome climbed over his big body and sat herself lightly upon the
flat head, holding the bundle of the Scarecrow's raiment in her hand.
Slowly the elastic neck stretched out until it reached the far side of
the ditch, when the beast lowered his head and permitted the beautiful
fairy to leap to the ground.

Woot made the queer journey next, and then the Tin Soldier and the Tin
Woodman went over, and all were well pleased to have overcome this
serious barrier to their progress.

"Now, Soldier, cut the hay," said the Scarecrow's head, which was still
held by Woot the Wanderer.

"I'd like to, but I can't stoop over, with my bent leg, without
falling," replied Captain Fyter.

"What can we do about that leg, anyhow?" asked Woot, appealing to
Polychrome.