She danced around in a circle several times without replying, and the
boy feared she had not heard him; but the Rainbow's Daughter was merely
thinking upon the problem, and presently she paused beside the Tin
Soldier and said:

"I've been taught a little fairy magic, but I've never before been asked
to mend tin legs with it, so I'm not sure I can help you. It all depends
on the good will of my unseen fairy guardians, so I'll try, and if I
fail, you will be no worse off than you are now."

She danced around the circle again, and then laid both hands upon the
twisted tin leg and sang in her sweet voice:

"Fairy Powers, come to my aid!
    This bent leg of tin is made;
    Make it straight and strong and true,
    And I'll render thanks to you."

"Ah!" murmured Captain Fyter in a glad voice, as she withdrew her hands
and danced away, and they saw he was standing straight as ever, because
his leg was as shapely and strong as it had been before his accident.

The Tin Woodman had watched Polychrome with much interest, and he now
said:

"Please take the dent out of my side, Poly, for I am more crippled than
was the Soldier."

So the Rainbow's Daughter touched his side lightly and sang:

"Here's a dent by accident;
    Such a thing was never meant.
    Fairy Powers, so wondrous great,
    Make our dear Tin Woodman straight!"

"Good!" cried the Emperor, again standing erect and strutting around to
show his fine figure. "Your fairy magic may not be able to accomplish
all things, sweet Polychrome, but it works splendidly on tin. Thank you
very much."

"The hay--the hay!" pleaded the Scarecrow's head.

"Oh, yes; the hay," said Woot. "What are you waiting for, Captain
Fyter?"

At once the Tin Soldier set to work cutting hay with his sword and in a
few minutes there was quite enough with which to stuff the Scarecrow's
body. Woot and Polychrome did this and it was no easy task because the
hay packed together more than straw and as they had little experience in
such work their job, when completed, left the Scarecrow's arms and legs
rather bunchy. Also there was a hump on his back which made Woot laugh
and say it reminded him of a camel, but it was the best they could do
and when the head was fastened on to the body they asked the Scarecrow
how he felt.

"A little heavy, and not quite natural," he cheerfully replied; "but
I'll get along somehow until we reach a straw-stack. Don't laugh at me,
please, because I'm a little ashamed of myself and I don't want to
regret a good action."

They started at once in the direction of Mount Munch, and as the
Scarecrow proved very clumsy in his movements, Woot took one of his arms
and the Tin Woodman the other and so helped their friend to walk in a
straight line.