"He is Professor of Cabbage Culture and Corn Perfection. He is very
famous in his own family, and would be the wonder of the world if he
went abroad," said Mrs. Swyne in a voice that was half proud and half
irritable. "I must also inform you intruders that the Professor is a
dangerous individual, for he files his teeth every morning until they
are sharp as needles. If you are butchers, you'd better run away and
avoid trouble."

"We are not butchers," the Tin Woodman assured her.

"Then what are you doing with that axe? And why has the other tin man a
sword?"

"They are the only weapons we have to defend our friends from their
enemies," explained the Emperor of the Winkies, and Woot added:

"Do not be afraid of us, Mrs. Swyne, for we are harmless travelers. The
tin men and the Scarecrow never eat anything and Polychrome feasts only
on dewdrops. As for me, I'm rather hungry, but there is plenty of food
in your garden to satisfy me."

Professor Swyne now joined his wife at the window, looking rather scared
in spite of the boy's assuring speech. He wore a blue Munchkin hat, with
pointed crown and broad brim, and big spectacles covered his eyes. He
peeked around from behind his wife and after looking hard at the
strangers, he said:

"My wisdom assures me that you are merely travelers, as you say, and not
butchers. Butchers have reason to be afraid of me, but you are safe. We
cannot invite you in, for you are too big for our house, but the boy who
eats is welcome to all the carrots and turnips he wants. Make
yourselves at home in the garden and stay all night, if you like; but in
the morning you must go away, for we are quiet people and do not care
for company."

"May I have some of your straw?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Help yourself," replied Professor Swyne.

"For pigs, they're quite respectable," remarked Woot, as they all went
toward the straw-stack.

"I'm glad they didn't invite us in," said Captain Fyter. "I hope I'm not
too particular about my associates, but I draw the line at pigs."

The Scarecrow was glad to be rid of his hay, for during the long walk it
had sagged down and made him fat and squatty and more bumpy than at
first.

"I'm not specially proud," he said, "but I love a manly figure, such as
only straw stuffing can create. I've not felt like myself since that
hungry Hip-po ate my last straw."

Polychrome and Woot set to work removing the hay and then they selected
the finest straw, crisp and golden, and with it stuffed the Scarecrow
anew. He certainly looked better after the operation, and he was so
pleased at being reformed that he tried to dance a little jig, and
almost succeeded.