On reaching the top of the hill, the plain spread out before them in all
its beauty of blue grasses and wildflowers, and Mount Munch seemed much
nearer than it had the previous evening. They trudged on at a brisk
pace, and by noon the mountain was so close that they could admire its
appearance. Its slopes were partly clothed with pretty evergreens, and
its foot-hills were tufted with a slender waving bluegrass that had a
tassel on the end of every blade. And, for the first time, they
perceived, near the foot of the mountain, a charming house, not of great
size but neatly painted and with many flowers surrounding it and vines
climbing over the doors and windows.

It was toward this solitary house that our travelers now directed their
steps, thinking to inquire of the people who lived there where Nimmie
Amee might be found.

There were no paths, but the way was quite open and clear, and they were
drawing near to the dwelling when Woot the Wanderer, who was then in the
lead of the little party, halted with such an abrupt jerk that he
stumbled over backward and lay flat on his back in the meadow. The
Scarecrow stopped to look at the boy.

"Why did you do that?" he asked in surprise.

Woot sat up and gazed around him in amazement.

"I--I don't know!" he replied.

The two tin men, arm in arm, started to pass them, when both halted and
tumbled, with a great clatter, into a heap beside Woot. Polychrome,
laughing at the absurd sight, came dancing up and she, also, came to a
sudden stop, but managed to save herself from falling.

Everyone of them was much astonished, and the Scarecrow said with a
puzzled look:

"I don't see anything."

"Nor I," said Woot; "but something hit me, just the same."

"Some invisible person struck me a heavy blow," declared the Tin
Woodman, struggling to separate himself from the Tin Soldier, whose legs
and arms were mixed with his own.

"I'm not sure it was a person," said Polychrome, looking more grave than
usual. "It seems to me that I merely ran into some hard substance which
barred my way. In order to make sure of this, let me try another place."

She ran back a way and then with much caution advanced in a different
place, but when she reached a position on a line with the others she
halted, her arms outstretched before her.

"I can feel something hard--something smooth as glass," she said, "but
I'm sure it is not glass."

"Let me try," suggested Woot, getting up; but when he tried to go
forward, he discovered the same barrier that Polychrome had encountered.

"No," he said, "it isn't glass. But what is it?"

"Air," replied a small voice beside him. "Solid air; that's all."