"To be sure," answered the Blue Rabbit; "I dug it that way so I could
roam in these broad fields, by going out one way, or eat the cabbages in
Nimmie Amee's garden by leaving my burrow at the other end. I don't
think Nimmie Amee ought to mind the little I take from her garden, or
the hole I've made under her magic wall. A rabbit may go and come as he
pleases, but no one who is bigger than I am could get through my
burrow."

"Will you allow us to pass through it, if we are able to?" inquired
Polychrome.

"Yes, indeed," answered the Blue Rabbit. "I'm no especial friend of
Nimmie Amee, for once she threw stones at me, just because I was
nibbling some lettuce, and only yesterday she yelled 'Shoo!' at me,
which made me nervous. You're welcome to use my burrow in any way you
choose."

"But this is all nonsense!" declared Woot the Wanderer. "We are every
one too big to crawl through a rabbit's burrow."

"We are too big _now_," agreed the Scarecrow, "but you must remember
that Polychrome is a fairy, and fairies have many magic powers."

Woot's face brightened as he turned to the lovely Daughter of the
Rainbow.

"Could you make us all as small as that rabbit?" he asked eagerly.

"I can try," answered Polychrome, with a smile.

And presently she did it--so easily that Woot was not the only one
astonished. As the now tiny people grouped themselves before the
rabbit's burrow the hole appeared to them like the entrance to a tunnel,
which indeed it was.

"I'll go first," said wee Polychrome, who had made herself grow as small
as the others, and into the tunnel she danced without hesitation. A tiny
Scarecrow went next and then the two funny little tin men.

"Walk in; it's your turn," said the Blue Rabbit to Woot the Wanderer.
"I'm coming after, to see how you get along. This will be a regular
surprise party to Nimmie Amee."

So Woot entered the hole and felt his way along its smooth sides in the
dark until he finally saw the glimmer of daylight ahead and knew the
journey was almost over. Had he remained his natural size, the distance
could have been covered in a few steps, but to a thumb-high Woot it was
quite a promenade. When he emerged from the burrow he found himself but
a short distance from the house, in the center of the vegetable garden,
where the leaves of rhubarb waving above his head seemed like trees.
Outside the hole, and waiting for him, he found all his friends.

"So far, so good!" remarked the Scarecrow cheerfully.

"Yes; _so far_, but no farther," returned the Tin Woodman in a plaintive
and disturbed tone of voice. "I am now close to Nimmie Amee, whom I have
come ever so far to seek, but I cannot ask the girl to marry such a
little man as I am now."