"Mercy, no," she answered. "That would be a lot of bother. I don't care
for society, or pomp, or posing. All I ask is to be left alone and not
to be annoyed by visitors."

The Scarecrow nudged Woot the Wanderer.

"That sounds to me like a hint," he said.

"Looks as if we'd had our journey for nothing," remarked Woot, who was a
little ashamed and disappointed because he had proposed the journey.

"I am glad, however," said the Tin Woodman, "that I have found Nimmie
Amee, and discovered that she is already married and happy. It will
relieve me of any further anxiety concerning her."

"For my part," said the Tin Soldier, "I am not sorry to be free. The
only thing that really annoys me is finding my head upon Chopfyt's
body."

"As for that, I'm pretty sure it is _my_ body, or a part of it, anyway,"
remarked the Emperor of the Winkies. "But never mind, friend Soldier;
let us be willing to donate our cast-off members to insure the happiness
of Nimmie Amee, and be thankful it is not our fate to hoe cabbages and
draw water--and be chided--in the place of this creature Chopfyt."

"Yes," agreed the Soldier, "we have much to be thankful for."

Polychrome, who had wandered outside, now poked her pretty head through
an open window and exclaimed in a pleased voice:

"It's getting cloudy. Perhaps it is going to rain!"

Through the Tunnel

CHAPTER 23

It didn't rain just then, although the clouds in the sky grew thicker
and more threatening. Polychrome hoped for a thunder-storm, followed by
her Rainbow, but the two tin men did not relish the idea of getting wet.
They even preferred to remain in Nimmie Amee's house, although they felt
they were not welcome there, rather than go out and face the coming
storm. But the Scarecrow, who was a very thoughtful person, said to his
friends:

"If we remain here until after the storm, and Polychrome goes away on
her Rainbow, then we will be prisoners inside the Wall of Solid Air; so
it seems best to start upon our return journey at once. If I get wet, my
straw stuffing will be ruined, and if you two tin gentlemen get wet, you
may perhaps rust again, and become useless. But even that is better than
to stay here. Once we are free of the barrier, we have Woot the Wanderer
to help us, and he can oil your joints and restuff my body, if it
becomes necessary, for the boy is made of meat, which neither rusts nor
gets soggy or moldy."

"Come along, then!" cried Polychrome from the window, and the others,
realizing the wisdom of the Scarecrow's speech, took leave of Nimmie
Amee, who was glad to be rid of them, and said good-bye to her husband,
who merely scowled and made no answer, and then they hurried from the
house.

"Your old parts are not very polite, I must say," remarked the
Scarecrow, when they were in the garden.