"No," said Woot, "Chopfyt is a regular grouch. He might have wished us
a pleasant journey, at the very least."

"I beg you not to hold us responsible for that creature's actions,"
pleaded the Tin Woodman. "We are through with Chopfyt and shall have
nothing further to do with him."

Polychrome danced ahead of the party and led them straight to the burrow
of the Blue Rabbit, which they might have had some difficulty in finding
without her. There she lost no time in making them all small again. The
Blue Rabbit was busy nibbling cabbage leaves in Nimmie Amee's garden, so
they did not ask his permission but at once entered the burrow.

Even now the raindrops were beginning to fall, but it was quite dry
inside the tunnel and by the time they had reached the other end,
outside the circular Wall of Solid Air, the storm was at its height and
the rain was coming down in torrents.

"Let us wait here," proposed Polychrome, peering out of the hole and
then quickly retreating. "The Rainbow won't appear until after the storm
and I can make you big again in a jiffy, before I join my sisters on our
bow."

"That's a good plan," said the Scarecrow approvingly. "It will save me
from getting soaked and soggy."

"It will save me from rusting," said the Tin Soldier.

"It will enable me to remain highly polished," said the Tin Woodman.

"Oh, as for that, I myself prefer not to get my pretty clothes wet,"
laughed the Rainbow's daughter. "But while we wait I will bid you all
adieu. I must also thank you for saving me from that dreadful Giantess,
Mrs. Yoop. You have been good and patient comrades and I have enjoyed
our adventures together, but I am never so happy as when on my dear
Rainbow."

"Will your father scold you for getting left on the earth?" asked Woot.

"I suppose so," said Polychrome gaily; "I'm always getting scolded for
my mad pranks, as they are called. My sisters are so sweet and lovely
and proper that they never dance off our Rainbow, and so they never have
any adventures. Adventures to me are good fun, only I never like to stay
too long on earth, because I really don't belong here. I shall tell my
Father the Rainbow that I'll try not to be so careless again, and he
will forgive me because in our sky mansions there is always joy and
happiness."

They were indeed sorry to part with their dainty and beautiful companion
and assured her of their devotion if they ever chanced to meet again.
She shook hands with the Scarecrow and the Tin Men and kissed Woot the
Wanderer lightly upon his forehead.

And then the rain suddenly ceased, and as the tiny people left the
burrow of the Blue Rabbit, a glorious big Rainbow appeared in the sky
and the end of its arch slowly descended and touched the ground just
where they stood.