Woot was so busy watching a score of lovely maidens--sisters of
Polychrome--who were leaning over the edge of the bow, and another score
who danced gaily amid the radiance of the splendid hues, that he did not
notice he was growing big again. But now Polychrome joined her sisters
on the Rainbow and the huge arch lifted and slowly melted away as the
sun burst from the clouds and sent its own white beams dancing over the
meadows.

"Why, she's gone!" exclaimed the boy, and turned to see his companions
still waving their hands in token of adieu to the vanished Polychrome.

The Curtain Falls

CHAPTER 24

Well, the rest of the story is quickly told, for the return journey of
our adventurers was without any important incident. The Scarecrow was so
afraid of meeting the Hip-po-gy-raf, and having his straw eaten again,
that he urged his comrades to select another route to the Emerald City,
and they willingly consented, so that the Invisible Country was wholly
avoided.

Of course, when they reached the Emerald City their first duty was to
visit Ozma's palace, where they were royally entertained. The Tin
Soldier and Woot the Wanderer were welcomed as warmly as any strangers
might be who had been the traveling companions of Ozma's dear old
friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.

At the banquet table that evening they related the manner in which they
had discovered Nimmie Amee, and told how they had found her happily
married to Chopfyt, whose relationship to Nick Chopper and Captain Fyter
was so bewildering that they asked Ozma's advice what to do about it.

"You need not consider Chopfyt at all," replied the beautiful girl Ruler
of Oz. "If Nimmie Amee is content with that misfit man for a husband, we
have not even just cause to blame Ku-Klip for gluing him together."

"I think it was a very good idea," added little Dorothy, "for if Ku-Klip
hadn't used up your cast-off parts, they would have been wasted. It's
wicked to be wasteful, isn't it?"

in any way. If you hadn't gone where he is and discovered him, you would
never have worried about him."

"What do you care, anyhow," Betsy Bobbin asked the Tin Woodman, "so long
as Nimmie Amee is satisfied?"

"And just to think," remarked Tiny Trot, "that any girl would rather
live with a mixture like Chopfyt, on far-away Mount Munch, than to be
the Empress of the Winkies!"

"It is her own choice," said the Tin Woodman contentedly; "and, after
all, I'm not sure the Winkies would care to have an Empress."